1 : 4 And I looked , and , behold , a whirlwind came out of the north , a great cloud , and a fire infolding itself , and a brightness was about it , and out of the midst thereof as the colour of amber , out of the midst of the fire .
1 : 27 And I saw as the colour of amber , as the appearance of fire round about within it , from the appearance of his loins even upward , and from the appearance of his loins even downward , I saw as it were the appearance of fire , and it had brightness round about .
8 : 2 Then I beheld , and lo a likeness as the appearance of fire : from the appearance of his loins even downward , fire ; and from his loins even upward , as the appearance of brightness , as the colour of amber .
where , when seamen fall overboard , they are sometimes found , months afterwards , perpendicularly frozen into the hearts of fields of ice , as a fly is found glued in amber .
For at that time , and indeed until a comparatively late day , the precise origin of ambergris remained , like amber itself , a problem to the learned .
Though the word ambergris is but the French compound for grey amber , yet the two substances are quite distinct .
For amber , though at times found on the sea - coast , is also dug up in some far inland soils , whereas ambergris is never found except upon the sea .
Besides , amber is a hard , transparent , brittle , odorless substance , used for mouth - pieces to pipes , for beads and ornaments ; but ambergris is soft , waxy , and so highly fragrant and spicy , that it is largely used in perfumery , in pastiles , precious candles , hair - powders , and pomatum .
No sooner had the Almighty ceased , but all The multitude of Angels , with a shout Loud as from numbers without number , sweet As from blest voices , uttering joy , Heaven rung With jubilee , and loud Hosannas filled The eternal regions : Lowly reverent Towards either throne they bow , and to the ground With solemn adoration down they cast Their crowns inwove with amarant and gold ; Immortal amarant , a flower which once In Paradise , fast by the tree of life , Began to bloom ; but soon for man ' s offence To Heaven removed , where first it grew , there grows , And flowers aloft shading the fount of life , And where the river of bliss through midst of Heaven Rolls o ' er Elysian flowers her amber stream ; With these that never fade the Spirits elect Bind their resplendent locks inwreathed with beams ; Now in loose garlands thick thrown off , the bright Pavement , that like a sea of jasper shone , Impurpled with celestial roses smiled .
Forth rushed with whirlwind sound The chariot of Paternal Deity , Flashing thick flames , wheel within wheel undrawn , Itself instinct with Spirit , but convoyed By four Cherubick shapes ; four faces each Had wonderous ; as with stars , their bodies all And wings were set with eyes ; with eyes the wheels Of beryl , and careering fires between ; Over their heads a crystal firmament , Whereon a sapphire throne , inlaid with pure Amber , and colours of the showery arch .
Slanders Sir : for the Satyricall slaue saies here , that old men haue gray Beards ; that their faces are wrinkled ; their eyes purging thicke Amber , or Plum - Tree Gumme : and that they haue a plentifull locke of Wit , together with weake Hammes .
