Mr . Weston was a man of unexceptionable character , easy fortune , suitable age , and pleasant manners ; and there was some satisfaction in considering with what self - denying , generous friendship she had always wished and promoted the match ; but it was a black morning ' s work for her .
They arrived , the carriage turned , the step was let down , and Mr . Elton , spruce , black , and smiling , was with them instantly .
Well , what do you say to it ?-- I always told you he would be here again soon , did not I ?-- Anne , my dear , did not I always tell you so , and you would not believe me ?-- In town next week , you see -- at the latest , I dare say ; for _she_ is as impatient as the black gentleman when any thing is to be done ; most likely they will be there to - morrow or Saturday .
His father would not own himself uneasy , and laughed at her fears ; but she could not be cured of wishing that he would part with his black mare .
The black mare was blameless ; _they_ were right who had named Mrs . Churchill as the cause .
Yet so miserably had he conducted himself , that though she was at this present time ( the summer of 1814 ) wearing black ribbons for his wife , she could not admit him to be worth thinking of again .
That she was coming to apologize , and that they should have to spend the evening by themselves , was the first black idea ; and Mary was quite ready to be affronted , when Louisa made all right by saying , that she only came on foot , to leave more room for the harp , which was bringing in the carriage .
An hour ' s complete leisure for such reflections as these , on a dark November day , a small thick rain almost blotting out the very few objects ever to be discerned from the windows , was enough to make the sound of Lady Russell ' s carriage exceedingly welcome ; and yet , though desirous to be gone , she could not quit the Mansion House , or look an adieu to the Cottage , with its black , dripping and comfortless veranda , or even notice through the misty glasses the last humble tenements of the village , without a saddened heart .
he is black at heart , hollow and black !"
But he is a pleasant , good humoured fellow , and has got the nicest little black bitch of a pointer I ever saw .
13 : 31 And if the priest look on the plague of the scall , and , behold , it be not in sight deeper than the skin , and that there is no black hair in it ; then the priest shall shut up him that hath the plague of the scall seven days : 13 : 32 And in the seventh day the priest shall look on the plague : and , behold , if the scall spread not , and there be in it no yellow hair , and the scall be not in sight deeper than the skin ; 13 : 33 He shall be shaven , but the scall shall he not shave ; and the priest shall shut up him that hath the scall seven days more : 13 : 34 And in the seventh day the priest shall look on the scall : and , behold , if the scall be not spread in the skin , nor be in sight deeper than the skin ; then the priest shall pronounce him clean : and he shall wash his clothes , and be clean .
13 : 37 But if the scall be in his sight at a stay , and that there is black hair grown up therein ; the scall is healed , he is clean : and the priest shall pronounce him clean .
18 : 45 And it came to pass in the mean while , that the heaven was black with clouds and wind , and there was a great rain .
1 : 5 And when these days were expired , the king made a feast unto all the people that were present in Shushan the palace , both unto great and small , seven days , in the court of the garden of the king ' s palace ; 1 : 6 Where were white , green , and blue , hangings , fastened with cords of fine linen and purple to silver rings and pillars of marble : the beds were of gold and silver , upon a pavement of red , and blue , and white , and black , marble .
30 : 30 My skin is black upon me , and my bones are burned with heat .
7 : 6 For at the window of my house I looked through my casement , 7 : 7 And beheld among the simple ones , I discerned among the youths , a young man void of understanding , 7 : 8 Passing through the street near her corner ; and he went the way to her house , 7 : 9 In the twilight , in the evening , in the black and dark night : 7 : 10 And , behold , there met him a woman with the attire of an harlot , and subtil of heart .
1 : 5 I am black , but comely , O ye daughters of Jerusalem , as the tents of Kedar , as the curtains of Solomon .
1 : 6 Look not upon me , because I am black , because the sun hath looked upon me : my mother ' s children were angry with me ; they made me the keeper of the vineyards ; but mine own vineyard have I not kept .
5 : 11 His head is as the most fine gold , his locks are bushy , and black as a raven .
4 : 28 For this shall the earth mourn , and the heavens above be black ; because I have spoken it , I have purposed it , and will not repent , neither will I turn back from it .
8 : 21 For the hurt of the daughter of my people am I hurt ; I am black ; astonishment hath taken hold on me .
14 : 2 Judah mourneth , and the gates thereof languish ; they are black unto the ground ; and the cry of Jerusalem is gone up .
5 : 10 Our skin was black like an oven because of the terrible famine .
6 : 2 In the first chariot were red horses ; and in the second chariot black horses ; 6 : 3 And in the third chariot white horses ; and in the fourth chariot grisled and bay horses .
6 : 6 The black horses which are therein go forth into the north country ; and the white go forth after them ; and the grisled go forth toward the south country .
5 : 36 Neither shalt thou swear by thy head , because thou canst not make one hair white or black .
And I beheld , and lo a black horse ; and he that sat on him had a pair of balances in his hand .
6 : 12 And I beheld when he had opened the sixth seal , and , lo , there was a great earthquake ; and the sun became black as sackcloth of hair , and the moon became as blood ; 6 : 13 And the stars of heaven fell unto the earth , even as a fig tree casteth her untimely figs , when she is shaken of a mighty wind .
THE LITTLE BLACK BOY
My mother bore me in the southern wild , And I am black , but oh my soul is white !
White as an angel is the English child , But I am black , as if bereaved of light .
" And we are put on earth a little space , That we may learn to bear the beams of love And these black bodies and this sunburnt face Is but a cloud , and like a shady grove .
When I from black and he from white cloud free , And round the tent of God like lambs we joy
-- That thousands of sweepers , Dick , Joe , Ned , and Jack , Were all of them locked up in coffins of black .
A little black thing in the snow , Crying " weep !
And I saw it was filled with graves , And tombstones where flowers should be ; And priests in black gowns were walking their rounds , And binding with briars my joys and desires .
This was too much for the good Moon ; he put out his big light , all at once , and left the sky pitch - black .
Carefully I hold them up to the sun ; carefully I gather the dew in the summer nights ; slowly they ripen ; they grow larger and redder and darker , and at last they are black , shining , delicious .
Down along the rocky shore Some make their home -- They live on crispy pancakes Of yellow tide - foam ; Some in the reeds Of the black mountain - lake , With frogs for their watch - dogs , All night awake .
So he stuck the black end of his snout above the water and waited .
And still more and more , till it was like an army of black , hopping , crawling crickets , streaming down the side of the mountain to kill the crops .
Whether they were for white children or black , for Jews , Catholics , or Protestants , made no difference ; for Margaret always said , " They are all orphans alike ."
Slower , and slower , went the grey donkey ; slower , and slower , till , in the very middle of a pitch - black wood , he stopped and stood still .
Buster Bear yawned as he lay on his comfortable bed of leaves and watched the first early morning sunbeams creeping through the Green Forest to chase out the Black Shadows .
Anger sometimes makes the hair on the back and neck of Bowser the Hound and of some other little people bristle and stand up , and you know the hair on the tail of Black Pussy stands on end until her tail looks twice as big as it really is .
And far below , lower even than the lights , could be seen creeping or motionless , great black masses of men .
His high , hawklike features and snaky black hair bore the mark of that unknown historic thing which is crudely called Celtic , but which is probably far older than the Celts , whoever they were .
He was a tall , spruce man , with a twist of black moustache and incomparable morning dress .
" The hour has come -- the black hour God meant for it .
" Yes ," said MacIan , with a sudden contraction of his black brows , " yes , it must be now ."
Don ' t you dare to say one word , white or black , about it .
" Why should not angels sometimes come to show us the black abyss of evil on whose brink we stand .
It was almost as high and smooth as a wall , and on the top of it the black hedge stood out over them as an angle , almost like a thatched roof of the lane .
Against the heraldic background of sprawling crimson and gold offered him by the expiring sunset , the figure of the man with the stick showed at first merely black and fantastic .
He had his long black cane still tilted in his hand like a fencing foil and half presented at the open door .
" Pick up that sword and fight me ," repeated MacIan , with brows as black as thunder .
Leaving it standing there , he clutched his black - haired skull with his great claws of hands , as was his custom when forcing the pace of his brain .
Turnbull regarded him for a second and a half with a baffling visage almost black against the moonrise ; then his hand made a sharp movement to his hip and his sword shone in the moon .
A small but very neat black - and - yellow motor - car was standing stolidly , slightly to the left of the road .
The fourth , however , had already advanced on the chauffeur of the black - and - yellow car , and was threatening him with a stick .
The lady symbolized her feelings , whatever they were , by urging the machine faster and faster until scattered woodlands went by them in one black blotch and heavy hills and valleys seemed to ripple under the wheels like mere waves .
The fact that the lady had a little fur at her throat ; the fact that the curve of her cheek was a low and lean curve and that the moonlight caught the height of her cheek - bone ; the fact that her hands were small but heavily gloved as they gripped the steering - wheel ; the fact that a white witch light was on the road ; the fact that the brisk breeze of their passage stirred and fluttered a little not only the brown hair of her head but the black fur on her cap .
Then the last flattening hammer fell upon poor Evan ' s embarrassment ; for the fluffy brown head with the furry black cap did not turn by a section of the compass .
A black dot in the distance sprang up a tall black forest , swallowed them and spat them out again at the other end .
They looked at the sky and it seemed as dark as ever ; then they saw the black shape of a tower or tree against it and knew that it was already grey .
Then a white witch fire began to burn between the black stems of the fir - trees ; and , like so many things in nature , though not in books on evolution , the daybreak , when it did come , came much quicker than one would think .
The gloomy heavens were ripped up and rolled away like a scroll , revealing splendours , as the car went roaring up the curve of a great hill ; and above them and black against the broadening light , there stood one of those crouching and fantastic trees that are first signals of the sea .
He ducked instinctively as there bulked above him a big , black wave , much higher than any that he had seen .
He had recently lost his wife , whom he had loved heartily and rather heavily in complete silence , and upon whose grave he was constantly in the habit of placing hideous little wreaths , made out of a sort of black - and - white beads .
He was a short , prosperous - looking man , whose long , bushy black beard and clumsy black umbrella made him seem both shorter and older than he really was ; but whose big , bold eyes , and step that spurned the ground , gave him an instant character of youth .
Even Durand was invisible instead of being merely reverentially remote ; and Madeleine set forth through the patch of black forest alone .
When it was recognized it was that of Camille , with the black elderly beard and the young ardent eyes .
He went out himself into the darkness , walking sturdily , but tearing at his black beard .
His dark black hair and beard looked utterly unnatural against the startling pallor of his face .
He had been plucking fiercely at his black beard and hair all the time ; now he suddenly plucked them off and flung them like moulted feathers in the mire .
And he plunged along into the village , leaving his black wig and beard lying behind him on the road .
And occasionally they would look up at the starlight and the rock and see the space guarded by the two cross - hilted swords , which looked like two black crosses at either end of a grave .
A black man ."
" He put up his black head and grinned at me ."
" He ' s black , oh , there ' s no doubt the black ' s all right -- as far as it goes ."
I have learnt everything I wanted to know from the partially black musician over there , who has taken a run in his war - paint to meet a friend in a quiet pub along the coast -- the noble savage has told me all about it .
From every side across the grey - green common figures could be seen running and closing in ; and it was only when MacIan with his big body broke down the tangled barrier of a little wood , as men break down a door with the shoulder ; it was only when they vanished crashing into the underworld of the black wood , that their hunters were even instantaneously thrown off the scent .
At the risk of struggling a little longer like flies in that black web of twigs and trunks , Evan ( who had an instinct of the hunter or the hunted ) took an incalculable course through the forest , which let them out at last by a forest opening -- quite forgotten by the leaders of the chase .
A double eye - glass , with a broad , black ribbon , drooped from his aquiline nose , and he smiled , as he communed with himself , with a self - content which was rare and almost irritating .
The big banker in the black frock - coat and hat was standing quite grave and dignified on the lawn , save for his slight twitch of one limb , and he did not seem by any means unworthy of the part which the other promptly forced upon him .
With a softness incredible in any cat , the huge , heavy man in the black hat and frock - coat had crept across the lawn from his own side and was saying in his ear : " Don ' t trust that second of yours .
MacIan was sitting somewhat disconsolately on a stump of tree , his large black head half buried in his large brown hands , when Turnbull strode up to him chewing a cigarette .
The next moment the thing drove right across the moon , and from being silver upon blue , suddenly became black upon silver ; then although it passed the field of light in a flash its outline was unmistakable though eccentric .
But against this black background there sprang up , picked out in glittering silver , a dome and a cross .
When it came about a hundred feet above the garden , a shaggy , lean figure leapt up in it , almost black against the bronze and scarlet of the west , and , flinging out a kind of hook or anchor , caught on to the green apple - tree just under the wall ; and from that fixed holding ground the ship swung in the red tempest like a captive balloon .
At the other end of it was a ponderous and polished desk with an incandescent lamp on it , the light of which was just sufficient to show a slender , well - bred figure in an ordinary medical black frock - coat , whose head , quite silvered with age , was bent over neat piles of notes .
But in the white wall there were two iron doors painted white on which were written , respectively , in neat black capitals B and C .
It was a third oblong cell exactly like the other two except that it was doorless , and except that on one of the walls was painted a large black A like the B and C outside their own doors .
With one bound they were in that cool and cleared landscape , and they found just outside the door the black - clad gentleman with the cloven chin smilingly regarding them ; and his chin seemed to grow longer and longer as he smiled .
From behind the two black - coated doctors as they stood on the lawn another figure somewhat similarly dressed strode hurriedly past them , having also grizzled hair and an open flapping frock - coat .
Both his decisive step and dapper black array marked him out as another medical man , or at least a man in authority , and as he passed Turnbull the latter was aroused by a strong impression of having seen the man somewhere before .
The ostensible cause of his removal was the unexpected reappearance of his two other acquaintances walking and talking laboriously along the way , with the black head bent close to the brown one .
As they stared upward the little speck of light seemed slightly tilted , and two black dots dropped from the edge of it .
The umbrella was a black and prosaic bundle long past repair ; the hat was a broad - curved black hat , clerical but not common in England ; the man was the very embodiment of all that is homely and helpless .
And yet there is the little fellow in his respectable black jacket , as punctual and innocent as a parlour clock .
In the scrappy back garden of the MacNabs which ran down towards the sand , two black , barren - looking trees stood up like demon hands held up in astonishment , and as Mrs MacNab ran down the street to meet them with lean hands similarly spread , and her fierce face in shadow , she was a little like a demon herself .
A few feet from it lay what looked like a long knife or short sword , straight , but with an ornamental and pictured handle , its dull blade just caught a grey glint from the dreary window behind , which showed the black trees against the leaden level of the sea .
For the whole air was dense with the morbidity of blackmail , which is the most morbid of human things , because it is a crime concealing a crime ; a black plaster on a blacker wound .
And though the broad black scarf completely masked the lower half of Todhunter ' s visage , they did grow conscious of something struggling and intense about the upper part of it .
Muscari had an eagle nose like Dante ; his hair and neckerchief were dark and flowing ; he carried a black cloak , and might almost have carried a black mask , so much did he bear with him a sort of Venetian melodrama .
Muscari threw back his black mane .
The courier and the young banker carried loaded revolvers , and Muscari ( with much boyish gratification ) buckled on a kind of cutlass under his black cloak .
" I cannot imagine ," said Muscari , rubbing up his black hair for once with an unaffected gesture .
They both had black beards that did not seem to belong to their faces , after the strange French fashion which makes real hair look like artificial .
The door was opened to them by the doctor ' s old servant , Simon , who might very well have passed for a doctor himself , having a strict suit of black , spectacles , grey hair , and a confidential manner .
His face was brown like a nut ; he had very bright and restless brown eyes ; his dark hair was brushed back stiffly in front and cropped close behind , outlining a square and powerful skull ; and he had a huge black moustache like the horns of a bison .
With the prompt French instinct for the politics of the street , the man with the black moustache had already run across to a corner of the cafe , sprung on one of the tables , and seizing a branch of chestnut to steady himself , shouted as Camille Desmoulins once shouted when he scattered the oak - leaves among the populace .
It isn ' t written in red ink , but in ordinary black ink .
But if it was white , the whole business is black .
As long as it was only the left drawer instead of the right , and red ink instead of black , I thought it must be the chance blunders of a forger , as you say .
Something in the stolid way he did so caused Flambeau ' s fierce black eyes to ramble over his companion afresh .
Flambeau strode up to the door thus shut almost in his face , and stood in front of it for a moment , biting his black moustache in a fury of curiosity .
His brown complexion had gone , his big black moustache had gone ; he -- was clean - shaven and very pate .
If it ' s white instead of black , and solid instead of liquid , and so on all along the line -- then there ' s something wrong , Monsieur , there ' s something wrong .
Slipping on a loose black coat , the figure vanished towards the front of the house .
The passage was comparatively long and dark , so each man could see the other as a mere black silhouette at the other end .
The door was opened to them by an aged servant or " dresser ", whose broken - down face and figure and black shabby coat and trousers contrasted queerly with the glittering interior of the great actress ' s dressing - room .
His vivid black eyes rolled volcanically , his bronzed face , handsome as it was , showed at that moment a combination of high cheekbones with set white teeth , which recalled certain American conjectures about his origin in the Southern plantations .
It was a very short man in the black uniform of the Roman secular clergy , and looking ( especially in such a presence as Bruno ' s and Aurora ' s ) rather like the wooden Noah out of an ark .
The man like a black wooden Noah ( who was not wholly without shrewdness ) noted it with a considerable but contained amusement .
Every time he pulled out the frame of a new glass , a new black figure of Father Brown appeared ; the absurd glass chamber was full of Father Browns , upside down in the air like angels , turning somersaults like acrobats , turning their backs to everybody like very rude persons .
And he stood looking down at old Parkinson , who sat in a black huddle on the gorgeous chair .
The passage is of such length that anyone in the middle of it appears quite black against the light at the other end ."
Cowdray was resuming his seat with his solemn face , smoothing his black silk robes , and white silk whiskers .
But he could give little artistic assistance about the black figure that he and Seymour had seen .
But unfortunately Sir Walter had somehow got it into his head ( mostly by some ramifications of his family ' s religion ) that Father Brown was on the side of the prisoner , because the prisoner was wicked and foreign and even partly black .
" A black shape was seen in the passage .
And you say you saw the black shape .
" The shape ," he said , " was short and thick , but had two sharp , black projections curved upwards on each side of the head or top , rather like horns , and --"
He was only temporarily detained for some comparatively trivial assault ; but he gave everyone the impression of a man with a black past and a dangerous future .
He appeared to be much exhausted ; but when he came to the thick black hedge he went through it as if it were made of spiders ' webs ; -- or rather ( for I heard the strong branches breaking and snapping like bayonets ) as if he himself were made of stone .
They were so ill - fitting as to be quite grotesque ; even as he appeared in black outline against the moonrise , the coat - collar in which his head was buried made him look like a hunchback , and the long loose sleeves looked as if he had no hands .
A door had opened in the dark bulk of the left wing , and a figure appeared black against the illuminated interior -- a muffled figure bending forward , evidently peering out into the night .
He was dressed poorly but respectably in black , from the old black top hat on his head to the solid black boots on his feet .
Anyhow , I was looking blankly , but rather pleasantly than otherwise , at another window , uncurtained , but by this time black as a slate with the final night - fall .
But , even as I passed , I could swear I saw a second black window with something on it that was like a snail .
The man whom Father Brown had seen pass the tavern was standing against the wall as if at bay ; unchanged , save that he had taken off his black coat and was wearing a brown dressing - gown .
Well , you don ' t believe in black magic ; and if you did , you couldn ' t use it for copy .
The dominant figure , both because he was bigger in all three dimensions , and because he sat centrally in the length of the table , facing me , was a tall , fat man dressed completely in black , with a rubicund , even apoplectic visage , but a rather bald and rather bothered brow .
It was even less easy to fix the impression in the case of the man at the right end of the table , who , to say truth , was as commonplace a person as could be seen anywhere , with a round , brown - haired head and a round snub nose , but also clad in clerical black , of a stricter cut .
The big man in black seemed very learned , especially about local antiquities ; the small man in black , though he talked much less , surprised me with a yet wider culture .
The big man in black was staring at me with the wild air of a baffled bull ; he did not at first seem to take it in .
The big shoulders , black brows and black mousquetaire swagger of Flambeau were a great contrast .
They had reached that phase just after sunset when air and water both look bright , but earth and all its growing things look almost black by comparison .
Some of the planks and beams were of good , seasoned oak ; some of such wood cut raw and recent ; some again of white pinewood , and a great deal more of the same sort of wood painted black with tar .
These black beams were set crooked or crisscross at all kinds of angles , giving the whole a most patchy and puzzling appearance .
Through a gap in the foliage there appeared for a moment one of those old wooden houses , faced with black beams , which are still to be found here and there in England , but which most of us see imitated in some show called " Old London " or " Shakespeare ' s England '.
Indeed , the black - haired young lady was letting her canoe float slowly and silently past the strange islet ; and was looking intently up at the strange tower , with a strong glow of curiosity on her oval and olive face .
They entered a wooded avenue between two fences of thin greyish wood , such as often enclose parks or gardens , and over the top of which the dark trees tossed to and fro like black and purple plumes upon the hearse of a giant .
Almost as he spoke , the butler , a lean man in black , with very black hair and a very long , yellow face , appeared in the doorway and told him that dinner was served .
Towards the end of the dinner they took their yellow clothes and black faces out of the room , leaving only the black clothes and yellow face of the butler .
Fanshaw , with his fairy tales , would say my blood moved against men with that black , Spanish - looking hair ."
But in the blood - red glare , with their black faces and yellow figures , they looked like devils carrying instruments of torture .
" My waiters are all Italians , you see , and I thought it only fair they should see their countryman beat the black , if he really can do it .
As I told you , I have no staff --" And he went towards the black windows of his shuttered and unlighted inn .
And , sure enough , there appeared in the doorway a big white bulk with white cap and white apron , as befits a cook , but with the needless emphasis of a black face .
He was a quiet , well - featured fellow , rather sallow ; his dark clothes had nothing distinctive about them , except that his black necktie was worn rather high , like a stock , and secured by a gold pin with some grotesque head to it .
But he was a very different figure from the confused mass of white and black that had appeared for an instant in the doorway .
A tall black hat was tilted on his broad black head -- a hat of the sort that the French wit has compared to eight mirrors .
But somehow the black man was like the black hat .
He also was black , and yet his glossy skin flung back the light at eight angles or more .
" It was a very long gold pin , and had the carved head of a monkey or some such thing ," continued the cleric ; " and it was fixed in a rather odd way -- he wore pince - nez and a broad black --"
As he spoke a black feather from one of the ornamental firs fell , brushing the brim of his hat .
For people had found out how fearful and vast and silent was the force of the savage secret society , and by the time Flambeau and Father Brown were leaning on the parade parapet in April , the Black Man meant in England almost what he once meant in Scotland .
The man was haggard , but handsome , more sunburned than the other ; he had an aquiline profile and rather deep - sunken eyes , and a slight air of oddity arising from the combination of coal - black hair with a much lighter moustache .
" Yes , I did ," retorted the black - haired gentleman hotly ; " and so would you in my place .
The taller and more elegant man was still in his night - garb , with tousled black hair , and now crawling about the garden on his hands and knees , still looking for traces of the burglar ; and now and again , to all appearance , striking the ground with his hand in anger at not finding him .
When he strolled across to him , the black , unbrushed head was lifted abruptly , as if in some surprise at his continued presence .
She ' s been at me ," and he tossed his tousled black head towards Audrey , but the other had no need of the direction , " she ' s been at me today about how cruel I was to shoot a poor harmless house - breaker , and how I have the devil in me against poor harmless natives .
A door opened silently in the temple wall behind me and a man came out , with a brown face and a black coat .
I woke in black midnight , and lay thinking of nothing in particular , when I felt a faint tickling thing , like a thread or a hair , trailed across my throat .
His garrulity was an instant arrested ; for lifting his eyes , he saw what no one else saw -- the black figure of Dr Oman standing on the sunlit lawn and looking steadily into the room .
MR CALHOUN KIDD was a very young gentleman with a very old face , a face dried up with its own eagerness , framed in blue - black hair and a black butterfly tie .
That faultless falcon profile with purple - black Italian eye , which had been snap - shotted so often both for Smart Society and the Western Sun , gave everyone the impression of a man eaten by ambition as by a fire , or even a disease .
And turning the corner by the open lodge - gates , he set off , stumping up the long avenue of black pine - woods that pointed in abrupt perspective towards the inner gardens of Pendragon Park .
The trees were as black and orderly as plumes upon a hearse ; there were still a few stars .
More than once , as he went up that strange , black road of tragic artifice , he stopped , startled , thinking he heard steps in front of him .
He thought hazily of ghosts ; and was surprised how swiftly he could see the image of an appropriate and local ghost , one with a face as white as Pierrot ' s , but patched with black .
Over the black pine - wood came flying and flashing in the moon a naked sword -- such a slender and sparkling rapier as may have fought many an unjust duel in that ancient park .
That white face flung up to heaven , clean - shaven and so unnaturally young , like Byron with a Roman nose , those black curls already grizzled -- he had seen the thousand public portraits of Sir Claude Champion .
They tell me that not long ago he could still be seen about the neighbourhood occasionally , a man in a black cloak , nearly blind , with very wild , white hair , but a face of astonishing softness ."
It was a brilliant gathering , but very late , and gradually the Chamberlain -- you saw his portrait , too : a man with black eyebrows , serious eyes , and a meaningless sort of smile underneath -- the Chamberlain , I say , discovered there was everything there except the Prince himself .
Behind was the black cave , masked with green thorn , so low that it was hard to believe that a man could enter it .
" Behind the lectern , and looking across the valley , stood a very old man in a black robe that fell as straight as the cliffs around him , but whose white hair and weak voice seemed alike to waver in the wind .
They wore dull - black gowns like his own , but they had not the frosty silver on the hair , nor the frost - bitten refinement of the features .
" The old man in the black gown had hitherto continued to gaze at him with watery blue eyes and a sort of weak wisdom in his face .
" The moon had risen in strengthening silver , and the sky showed in stripes of bright , nocturnal blue between the black stripes of the pines about the castle .
And he ruminated long before the portrait of a white - haired man with black eyebrows and a pink , painted sort of smile that seemed to contradict the black warning in his eyes .
Weak if we were and foolish , not thus we failed , not thus ; When that black Baal blocked the heavens he had no hymns from us Children we were -- our forts of sand were even as weak as eve , High as they went we piled them up to break that bitter sea .
The tall hat and long frock coat were black ; the face , in an abrupt shadow , was almost as dark .
The mass of the anarchists entered the room heavily , with a slouching and somewhat weary gait ; but one little man , with a black beard and glasses -- a man somewhat of the type of Mr . Tim Healy -- detached himself , and bustled forward with some papers in his hand .
The brow of the little man with the black beard was , however , still contracted with something like suspicion .
He wore an old - fashioned black chimney - pot hat ; he was wrapped in a yet more old - fashioned cloak , black and ragged ; and the combination gave him the look of the early villains in Dickens and Bulwer Lytton .
A long , lean , black cigar , bought in Soho for twopence , stood out from between his tightened teeth , and altogether he looked a very satisfactory specimen of the anarchists upon whom he had vowed a holy war .
Thus it was that when Gabriel Syme came out again into the crimson light of evening , in his shabby black hat and shabby , lawless cloak , he came out a member of the New Detective Corps for the frustration of the great conspiracy .
They were big and black against the huge white dawn .
He had a black French beard cut square and a black English frock - coat cut even squarer .
With this went a sense of his being clad , not in lighter colours , but in softer materials ; his black seemed richer and warmer than the black shades about him , as if it were compounded of profound colour .
His black coat looked as if it were only black by being too dense a purple .
His black beard looked as if it were only black by being too deep a blue .
In the bright coloured Persian tiles and pictures showing tyrants hunting , you may see just those almond eyes , those blue - black beards , those cruel , crimson lips .
It may have been merely a crescendo of nervous fancy that had gone before , but those black discs were dreadful to Syme ; they reminded him of half - remembered ugly tales , of some story about pennies being put on the eyes of the dead .
Syme ' s eye always caught the black glasses and the blind grin .
Even the instrument was chosen ; the black - bearded Marquis , it appeared , was to carry the bomb .
" You are wrong ," said the Secretary , drawing his black brows together .
He partook reflectively of four small and quaint courses , drank half a bottle of red wine , and ended up over black coffee and a black cigar , still thinking .
He ordered another cup of black coffee as an excuse .
But right up against these dreary colours rose the black bulk of the cathedral ; and upon the top of the cathedral was a random splash and great stain of snow , still clinging as to an Alpine peak .
Concealment was impossible now ; and looking back over his shoulder , he could see the black figure of the old gentleman coming after him with long , swinging strides like a man winning a mile race .
Even as he stared , the highest light in this innumerably lighted turret abruptly went out , as if this black Argus had winked at him with one of his innumerable eyes .
when he locked up all the plans of this outrage in the round , black head of Dr .
There should have been the black outline of a guillotine against that heavy red and white of the morning .
Dr . Bull was in his white shirt and black breeches only ; his cropped , dark head might well have just come out of its wig ; he might have been Marat or a more slipshod Robespierre .
Thus the two black glasses that encased his eyes might really have been black cavities in his skull , making him look like a death ' s - head .
Given those beastly black eyes , and all the rest of him his health and his jolly looks , made him a live devil among dead ones ."
With a sharp gesture he motioned them to silence , but he pointed with one gloved finger to a cafe table under a bank of flowering foliage at which sat the Marquis de St . Eustache , his teeth shining in his thick , black beard , and his bold , brown face shadowed by a light yellow straw hat and outlined against the violet sea .
Besides these black , cylindrical costumes , the Marquis , in his loose straw hat and light spring clothes , looked Bohemian and even barbaric ; but he looked the Marquis .
The Marquis , seeing him , arched his black Assyrian eyebrows in surprise , but smiled politely .
" I for one have said nothing for half an hour except that I liked the singing of that girl with black hair ."
With the exception of the Marquis , all the men were in sombre and solemn morning - dress , with hats like black chimney - pots ; the little Doctor especially , with the addition of his black spectacles , looked like an undertaker in a farce .
But , indeed , this comic contrast between the yellow blossoms and the black hats was but a symbol of the tragic contrast between the yellow blossoms and the black business .
In front of him , behind the black group of his opponents , he could see , like a tinted cloud , a small almond bush in flower against the faint line of the sea .
For one moment the heaven of Syme again grew black with supernatural terrors .
The younger second of the Marquis , a short man with a black moustache , bowed politely , and said --
" Do ordinary tourists ," asked Bull , with the fieldglasses to his eyes , " wear black masks half - way down the face ?"
Most men in the advancing mob really looked ordinary enough ; but it was quite true that two or three of the leaders in front wore black half - masks almost down to their mouths .
They saw already , even with the naked eye , black blots on the foremost faces , which marked the masks they wore .
The ex - Marquis had pulled the old straw hat over his eyes , and the black shade of the brim cut his face so squarely in two that it seemed to be wearing one of the black half - masks of their pursuers .
This wood of witchery , in which men ' s faces turned black and white by turns , in which their figures first swelled into sunlight and then faded into formless night , this mere chaos of chiaroscuro ( after the clear daylight outside ), seemed to Syme a perfect symbol of the world in which he had been moving for three days , this world where men took off their beards and their spectacles and their noses , and turned into other people .
As the wood grew first thinner and then smaller with distance , he could see the sunlit slopes beyond it and above it ; and across these was still moving the square black mob like one monstrous beetle .
It was true that the black patch of the pursuing men was growing smaller and smaller as the peasant belaboured his horse .
And as he stared over the top of the down behind the innkeeper , there appeared an army of black - clad and marching men .
They seemed to hang above the good man and his house like a black cloud of locusts .
" I am afraid ," said the Professor in his mirthful way , looking back along the white road on which the black , crawling patch might appear at any moment , " I am afraid we have hardly time for afternoon calls ."
They all looked round , and saw a curve of black cavalry come sweeping over the top of the hill with all the energy of Attila .
Swiftly as they rode , however , the whole rank still kept well together , and they could see the black vizards of the first line as level as a line of uniforms .
But although the main black square was the same , though travelling faster , there was now one sensational difference which they could see clearly upon the slope of the hill , as if upon a slanted map .
Two or three men , looking little and black like monkeys , leapt over the edge as they had done and dropped on to the beach .
The example was followed , and the whole black mass of men began to run and drip over the edge like black treacle .
One face wore a black half - mask , and under it the mouth was twisting about in such a madness of nerves that the black tuft of beard wriggled round and round like a restless , living thing .
The Secretary , ever since Syme ' s speech , had stood with his hand to his stricken head as if dazed ; now he suddenly pulled off his black mask .
" Why not say his black - beetles barking !"
Consequently the tireless though exasperated travellers broke through black thickets and ploughed through ploughed fields till each was turned into a figure too outrageous to be mistaken for a tramp .
Perhaps one black disc of your beastly glasses is quite close and another fifty miles away .
He was draped in a long robe of starless black , down the centre of which fell a band or broad stripe of pure white , like a single shaft of light .
The vestment itself would alone have suggested the symbol ; and Syme felt also how perfectly this pattern of pure white and black expressed the soul of the pale and austere Secretary , with his inhuman veracity and his cold frenzy , which made him so easily make war on the anarchists , and yet so easily pass for one of them .
Above all these , upon a sort of black framework on the roof of the house , roared in its iron basket a gigantic bonfire , which lit up the land for miles .
There was complete silence in the starlit garden , and then the black - browed Secretary , implacable , turned in his chair towards Sunday , and said in a harsh voice --
Against this fiery band was outlined in utter black the advancing legs of a black - clad figure .
It grew larger and larger , filling the whole sky ; then everything went black .
When he got to the stable a black cloud was just passing over the moon , and it was quite dark .
The black cloud had now passed over the moon , and the light shone full upon them .
" Well , Lawrence ," said Jem , pulling his coat as he passed and saw Lawrence leaning against his father ' s door , " what makes you look so black ?"
said Lawrence , starting ; " why do you say that I look black ?"
" To say that black is white , which I won ' t do , Mr . Case .
The wig was always pushed crooked whenever he was in a brown or rather , a black study .
Susan , who was sheltered by a laburnum tree , called to Barbara , upon whom the black clusters of bees were now settling , and begged her to stand still , and not to beat them away .
" No man has belied you , Mr . Cox , but your nose belies you much , if you do not love drinking a little , and your black eye and cut chin belie you much if you do not love quarrelling a little ."
" Mr . Keity , yellow and black velvet ; helmet trimmed with silver .
" Mr . Islip ( being in mourning ), a scarf ; helmet , black velvet ; and white satin .
Of all birds , beasts , or fishes , that swim in the sea , Webb ' d or finn ' d , black or white , man or child , Whig or Tory , None but Talbot , O , Talbot ' s the dog for Rory ."
He does not know me now , sir , since my accident , because of this great black patch ."
The young man put his hand to his right eye , which was covered with a huge black patch .
" In clothes , if you will be so good , uncle , for that poor boy who has the great black patch on his eye ."
" There ' s a poor lad , sir , below , with a great black patch on his right eye , who is come from Bristol , and wants to speak a word with the young gentlemen , if you please .
" It is that good - natured poor fellow from Bristol , I protest , that has brought it me ; I ' m sure I don ' t deserve it from him ," said Hal , to himself , when he saw the lad with the black patch on his eye running , quite out of breath , towards him , with his bow and arrows .
It happened that the poor boy with the black patch upon his eye , who had been ordered by Lady Diana to " fall back " and to " keep at a distance ," was now coming up the hill ; and the moment he saw our fallen hero , he hastened to his assistance .
" I suppose ," said he to his friend with the black patch --" I suppose my uncle and Ben had left home before you went for the shoes and stockings for me ?"
If I choose to call my hat my cadwallader , you would understand me just as well , after I had once explained it to you , that by cadwallader I meant this black thing that I put upon my head ; cadwallader and hat would then be just the same thing to you ."
but no Christopher answered ; and , upon turning round , Mrs . Tattle , instead of Christopher , beheld two little black figures , which stood perfectly still and silent .
" And like a man -- and like a good man , I am sure thou wilt ," said the good Quaker , shaking Frederick ' s hand affectionately ; " or I am much mistaken , friend , in that black countenance ."
" Frederick will never be persuaded again by anybody to do what he does not think right : and now , brother , you may wash your black countenance ."
Just when Frederick had got rid of half his black countenance , a double knock was heard at the door .
They formed the most beautiful gradation of colours , from the palest auburn to the brightest black .
These beams and rafters are burned quite black like charcoal , except those that were found in moist places , which have more the colour of rotten wood , and which are like a soft paste , into which you might run your hand .
They retired , in hopes of finding a more gentle padrona at some other well in the neighbourhood ; and the fury , when they were out of sight , divided the long black hair which hung over her face , and , turning to one of the spectators , appealed to them in a sober voice , and asked if she was not right in what she had done ?
Saying these words , he pulled Hardy along a narrow passage to a small closet , set apart for desperate offenders , and usually known by the name of the BLACK HOLE .
The locking of the black hole door was a terrible sound -- some knew not what it portended , and others knew TOO WELL .
Tarlton leaned back against the wall with a black countenance .
The waiter was at this instant luckily obliged to leave them to attend the bell ; and Paul told his business to the hostler , who as soon as he saw the guinea and heard the story , shook Paul by the hand , and said , " Stand steady , my honest lad ; I ' ll find the chaise for you , if it is to be found here ; but John Nelson ' s chaises almost always drive to the ' Black Bull .'"
It seemed the great Black Parliament sitting in Tophet .
A hundred black faces turned round in their rows to peer ; and beyond , a black Angel of Doom was beating a book in a pulpit .
True enough , thought I , as this passage occurred to my mind -- old black - letter , thou reasonest well .
But what most puzzled and confounded you was a long , limber , portentous , black mass of something hovering in the centre of the picture over three blue , dim , perpendicular lines floating in a nameless yeast .
Ever and anon a bright , but , alas , deceptive idea would dart you through .-- It ' s the Black Sea in a midnight gale .-- It ' s the unnatural combat of the four primal elements .-- It ' s a blasted heath .-- It ' s a Hyperborean winter scene .-- It ' s the breaking - up of the icebound stream of Time .
But at that moment he chanced to turn his face so towards the light , that I plainly saw they could not be sticking - plasters at all , those black squares on his cheeks .
Remembering the embalmed head , at first I almost thought that this black manikin was a real baby preserved in some similar manner .
The chaplain had not yet arrived ; and there these silent islands of men and women sat steadfastly eyeing several marble tablets , with black borders , masoned into the wall on either side the pulpit .
What bitter blanks in those black - bordered marbles which cover no ashes !
Between the marble cenotaphs on either hand of the pulpit , the wall which formed its back was adorned with a large painting representing a gallant ship beating against a terrible storm off a lee coast of black rocks and snowy breakers .
" In black distress , I called my God , When I could scarce believe him mine , He bowed his ear to my complaints -- No more the whale did me confine .
He sees no black sky and raging sea , feels not the reeling timbers , and little hears he or heeds he the far rush of the mighty whale , which even now with open mouth is cleaving the seas after him .
Through all his unearthly tattooings , I thought I saw the traces of a simple honest heart ; and in his large , deep eyes , fiery black and bold , there seemed tokens of a spirit that would dare a thousand devils .
Do you suppose now , Ishmael , that the magnanimous God of heaven and earth -- pagans and all included -- can possibly be jealous of an insignificant bit of black wood ?
Two enormous wooden pots painted black , and suspended by asses ' ears , swung from the cross - trees of an old top - mast , planted in front of an old doorway .
and a pair of prodigious black pots too !
But to my surprise and no small concern , Queequeg now gave me to understand , that he had been diligently consulting Yojo -- the name of his black little god -- and Yojo had told him two or three times over , and strongly insisted upon it everyway , that instead of our going together among the whaling - fleet in harbor , and in concert selecting our craft ; instead of this , I say , Yojo earnestly enjoined that the selection of the ship should rest wholly with me , inasmuch as Yojo purposed befriending us ; and , in order to do so , had already pitched upon a vessel , which , if left to myself , I , Ishmael , should infallibly light upon , for all the world as though it had turned out by chance ; and in that vessel I must immediately ship myself , for the present irrespective of Queequeg .
It was of a conical shape , some ten feet high ; consisting of the long , huge slabs of limber black bone taken from the middle and highest part of the jaws of the right - whale .
Mrs . Hussey soon appeared , with a mustard - pot in one hand and a vinegar - cruet in the other , having just broken away from the occupation of attending to the castors , and scolding her little black boy meantime .
He was but shabbily apparelled in faded jacket and patched trowsers ; a rag of a black handkerchief investing his neck .
For , like his nose , his short , black little pipe was one of the regular features of his face .
Tashtego ' s long , lean , sable hair , his high cheek bones , and black rounding eyes -- for an Indian , Oriental in their largeness , but Antarctic in their glittering expression -- all this sufficiently proclaimed him an inheritor of the unvitiated blood of those proud warrior hunters , who , in quest of the great New England moose , had scoured , bow in hand , the aboriginal forests of the main .
Third among the harpooneers was Daggoo , a gigantic , coal - black negro - savage , with a lion - like tread -- an Ahasuerus to behold .
Black Little Pip -- he never did -- oh , no !
Among the fishermen , he is indiscriminately designated by all the following titles : The Whale ; the Greenland Whale ; the Black Whale ; the Great Whale ; the True Whale ; the Right Whale .
*-- These embrace the whales of middling magnitude , among which present may be numbered :-- I ., the GRAMPUS ; II ., the BLACK FISH ; III ., the NARWHALE ; IV ., the THRASHER ; V ., the KILLER .
( BLACK FISH ).-- I give the popular fishermen ' s names for all these fish , for generally they are the best .
I do so now , touching the Black Fish , so - called , because blackness is the rule among almost all whales .
Black Letter tells me that Sir Martin Frobisher on his return from that voyage , when Queen Bess did gallantly wave her jewelled hand to him from a window of Greenwich Palace , as his bold ship sailed down the Thames ; " when Sir Martin returned from that voyage ," saith Black Letter , " on bended knees he presented to her highness a prodigious long horn of the Narwhale , which for a long period after hung in the castle at Windsor ."
The Narwhale has a very picturesque , leopard - like look , being of a milk - white ground colour , dotted with round and oblong spots of black .
Though his entire back down to his side fins is of a deep sable , yet a boundary line , distinct as the mark in a ship ' s hull , called the " bright waist ," that line streaks him from stem to stern , with two separate colours , black above and white below .
And what with the standing spectacle of the black terrific Ahab , and the periodical tumultuous visitations of these three savages , Dough - Boy ' s whole life was one continual lip - quiver .
to chase that white whale on both sides of land , and over all sides of earth , till he spouts black blood and rolls fin out .
Thou showest thy black brow , Seeva !
Our captain has his birthmark ; look yonder , boys , there ' s another in the sky -- lurid - like , ye see , all else pitch black .
Who ' s afraid of black ' s afraid of me !
Oh , thou big white God aloft there somewhere in yon darkness , have mercy on this small black boy down here ; preserve him from all men that have no bowels to feel fear !
There is no remembrance in him of any gorings of wild creatures in his green northern home , so that the strange muskiness he smells cannot recall to him anything associated with the experience of former perils ; for what knows he , this New England colt , of the black bisons of distant Oregon ?
Here are his reflections some time after quitting the ship , during a black night an open boat , when almost despairing of reaching any hospitable shore .
A rumpled Chinese jacket of black cotton funereally invested him , with wide black trowsers of the same dark stuff .
As for Fedallah , who was seen pulling the harpooneer oar , he had thrown aside his black jacket , and displayed his naked chest with the whole part of his body above the gunwale , clearly cut against the alternating depressions of the watery horizon ; while at the other end of the boat Ahab , with one arm , like a fencer ' s , thrown half backward into the air , as if to counterbalance any tendency to trip ; Ahab was seen steadily managing his steering oar as in a thousand boat lowerings ere the White Whale had torn him .
Beach me , beach me on their black backs , boys ; only do that for me , and I ' ll sign over to you my Martha ' s Vineyard plantation , boys ; including wife and children , boys .
And heaved and heaved , still unrestingly heaved the black sea , as if its vast tides were a conscience ; and the great mundane soul were in anguish and remorse for the long sin and suffering it had bred .
Rather Cape Tormentoto , as called of yore ; for long allured by the perfidious silences that before had attended us , we found ourselves launched into this tormented sea , where guilty beings transformed into those fowls and these fish , seemed condemned to swim on everlastingly without any haven in store , or beat that black air without any horizon .
" It was at this point , gentlemen , that enraged by the defection of seven of his former associates , and stung by the mocking voice that had last hailed him , and maddened by his long entombment in a place as black as the bowels of despair ; it was then that Steelkilt proposed to the two Canallers , thus far apparently of one mind with him , to burst out of their hole at the next summoning of the garrison ; and armed with their keen mincing knives ( long , crescentic , heavy implements with a handle at each end ) run amuck from the bowsprit to the taffrail ; and if by any devilishness of desperation possible , seize the ship .
The half - emptied line - tub floats on the whitened sea ; the wooden poles of the spilled harpoons obliquely bob in it ; the heads of the swimming crew are scattered about the whale in contrasting expressions of affright ; while in the black stormy distance the ship is bearing down upon the scene .
In the second engraving , the boat is in the act of drawing alongside the barnacled flank of a large running Right Whale , that rolls his black weedy bulk in the sea like some mossy rock - slide from the Patagonian cliffs .
His jets are erect , full , and black like soot ; so that from so abounding a smoke in the chimney , you would think there must be a brave supper cooking in the great bowels below .
From the ship , the smoke of the torments of the boiling whale is going up like the smoke over a village of smithies ; and to windward , a black cloud , rising up with earnest of squalls and rains , seems to quicken the activity of the excited seamen .
Seen from the mast - heads , especially when they paused and were stationary for a while , their vast black forms looked more like lifeless masses of rock than anything else .
Tied by the head to the stern , and by the tail to the bows , the whale now lies with its black hull close to the vessel ' s and seen through the darkness of the night , which obscured the spars and rigging aloft , the two -- ship and whale , seemed yoked together like colossal bullocks , whereof one reclines while the other remains standing .
Peering over the side you could just see them ( as before you heard them ) wallowing in the sullen , black waters , and turning over on their backs as they scooped out huge globular pieces of the whale of the bigness of a human head .
The old black , not in any very high glee at having been previously roused from his warm hammock at a most unseasonable hour , came shambling along from his galley , for , like many old blacks , there was something the matter with his knee - pans , which he did not keep well scoured like his other pans ; this old Fleece , as they called him , came shuffling and limping along , assisting his step with his tongs , which , after a clumsy fashion , were made of straightened iron hoops ; this old Ebony floundered along , and in obedience to the word of command , came to a dead stop on the opposite side of Stubb ' s sideboard ; when , with both hands folded before him , and resting on his two - legged cane , he bowed his arched back still further over , at the same time sideways inclining his head , so as to bring his best ear into play .
" What dat do wid de ' teak ," said the old black , testily .
" All ' dention ," said the old black , with both hands placed as desired , vainly wriggling his grizzled head , as if to get both ears in front at one and the same time .
The sea - vultures all in pious mourning , the air - sharks all punctiliously in black or speckled .
It was a black and hooded head ; and hanging there in the midst of so intense a calm , it seemed the Sphynx ' s in the desert .
" I should like to see him try it ; I ' d give him such a pair of black eyes that he wouldn ' t dare to show his face in the admiral ' s cabin again for a long while , let alone down in the orlop there , where he lives , and hereabouts on the upper decks where he sneaks so much .
In disposing of the body of a right whale , when brought alongside the ship , the same preliminary proceedings commonly take place as in the case of a sperm whale ; only , in the latter instance , the head is cut off whole , but in the former the lips and tongue are separately removed and hoisted on deck , with all the well known black bone attached to what is called the crown - piece .
And when he glanced upon the green walls of the watery defile in which the ship was then sailing , and bethought him that through that gate lay the route to his vengeance , and beheld , how that through that same gate he was now both chasing and being chased to his deadly end ; and not only that , but a herd of remorseless wild pirates and inhuman atheistical devils were infernally cheering him on with their curses ;-- when all these conceits had passed through his brain , Ahab ' s brow was left gaunt and ribbed , like the black sand beach after some stormy tide has been gnawing it , without being able to drag the firm thing from its place .
The boat was now all but jammed between two vast black bulks , leaving a narrow Dardanelles between their long lengths .
Now this was written at a time when the black limber bone of the Greenland or Right whale was largely used in ladies ' bodices .
In outer aspect , Pip and Dough - Boy made a match , like a black pony and a white one , of equal developments , though of dissimilar colour , driven in one eccentric span .
Nor smile so , while I write that this little black was brilliant , for even blackness has its brilliancy ; behold yon lustrous ebony , panelled in king ' s cabinets .
Out from the centre of the sea , poor Pip turned his crisp , curling , black head to the sun , another lonely castaway , though the loftiest and the brightest .
Not the wondrous cistern in the whale ' s huge head ; not the prodigy of his unhinged lower jaw ; not the miracle of his symmetrical tail ; none of these would so surprise you , as half a glimpse of that unaccountable cone ,-- longer than a Kentuckian is tall , nigh a foot in diameter at the base , and jet - black as Yojo , the ebony idol of Queequeg .
Arrayed in decent black ; occupying a conspicuous pulpit ; intent on bible leaves ; what a candidate for an archbishopric , what a lad for a Pope were this mincer !
He makes his berth an Aladdin ' s lamp , and lays him down in it ; so that in the pitchiest night the ship ' s black hull still houses an illumination .
But , Lord , look you , sir -- hearts and souls alive , man -- the next instant , in a jiff , I was blind as a bat -- both eyes out -- all befogged and bedeadened with black foam -- the whale ' s tail looming straight up out of it , perpendicular in the air , like a marble steeple .
In short , it grew black ; I knew what was threatened , and off it came .
So , it being calm weather , they broke out deeper and deeper , disturbing the slumbers of the huge ground - tier butts ; and from that black midnight sending those gigantic moles into the daylight above .
thy wretched laugh , thy idle but unresting eye ; all thy strange mummeries not unmeaningly blended with the black tragedy of the melancholy ship , and mocked it !
As this glad ship of good luck bore down upon the moody Pequod , the barbarian sound of enormous drums came from her forecastle ; and drawing still nearer , a crowd of her men were seen standing round her huge try - pots , which , covered with the parchment - like POKE or stomach skin of the black fish , gave forth a loud roar to every stroke of the clenched hands of the crew .
And Ahab , he too was standing on his quarter - deck , shaggy and black , with a stubborn gloom ; and as the two ships crossed each other ' s wakes -- one all jubilations for things passed , the other all forebodings as to things to come -- their two captains in themselves impersonated the whole striking contrast of the scene .
I ' ll soon take that black from your brow .
The waif - pole was thrust upright into the dead whale ' s spout - hole ; and the lantern hanging from its top , cast a troubled flickering glare upon the black , glossy back , and far out upon the midnight waves , which gently chafed the whale ' s broad flank , like soft surf upon a beach .
Relieved against the ghostly light , the gigantic jet negro , Daggoo , loomed up to thrice his real stature , and seemed the black cloud from which the thunder had come .
Oh , sir , let old Perth now come and rivet these two hands together ; the black one with the white , for I will not let this go ."
I feel prouder leading thee by thy black hand , than though I grasped an Emperor ' s !"
spite of million villains , this makes me a bigot in the fadeless fidelity of man !-- and a black !
Here , our old sailors say , in their black seventy - fours great admirals sometimes sit at table , and lord it over rows of captains and lieutenants .
What an odd feeling , now , when a black boy ' s host to white men with gold lace upon their coats !-- Monsieurs , have ye seen one Pip ?-- a little negro lad , five feet high , hang - dog look , and cowardly !
But already the sable wing was before the old man ' s eyes ; the long hooked bill at his head : with a scream , the black hawk darted away with his prize .
Ahab ' s hat was never restored ; the wild hawk flew on and on with it ; far in advance of the prow : and at last disappeared ; while from the point of that disappearance , a minute black spot was dimly discerned , falling from that vast height into the sea .
No , no ; only black water !
" The black vomit wrench thee !-- run all of ye above , alow , cabin , forecastle -- find him -- not gone -- not gone !"
Hearing the tremendous rush of the sea - crashing boat , the whale wheeled round to present his blank forehead at bay ; but in that evolution , catching sight of the nearing black hull of the ship ; seemingly seeing in it the source of all his persecutions ; bethinking it -- it may be -- a larger and nobler foe ; of a sudden , he bore down upon its advancing prow , smiting his jaws amid fiery showers of foam .
Round and round , then , and ever contracting towards the button - like black bubble at the axis of that slowly wheeling circle , like another Ixion I did revolve .
Till , gaining that vital centre , the black bubble upward burst ; and now , liberated by reason of its cunning spring , and , owing to its great buoyancy , rising with great force , the coffin life - buoy shot lengthwise from the sea , fell over , and floated by my side .
Nor content with such Audacious neighbourhood , the wisest heart Of Solomon he led by fraoud to build His temple right against the temple of God On that opprobrious hill , and made his grove The pleasant valley of Hinnom , Tophet thence And black Gehenna called , the type of Hell .
let us rather choose , Armed with Hell - flames and fury , all at once O ' er Heaven ' s high towers to force resistless way , Turning our tortures into horrid arms Against the Torturer ; when , to meet the noise Of his almighty engine , he shall hear Infernal thunder , and , for lightning , see Black fire and horror shot with equal rage Among his Angels , and his throne itself Mixed with Tartarean sulphur and strange fire , His own invented torments .
Another part , in squadrons and gross bands , On bold adventure to discover wide That dismal world , if any clime perhaps Might yield them easier habitation , bend Four ways their flying march , along the banks Of four infernal rivers , that disgorge Into the burning lake their baleful streams -- Abhorred Styx , the flood of deadly hate ; Sad Acheron of sorrow , black and deep ; Cocytus , named of lamentation loud Heard on the rueful stream ; fierce Phlegeton , Whose waves of torrent fire inflame with rage .
The other Shape -- If shape it might be called that shape had none Distinguishable in member , joint , or limb ; Or substance might be called that shadow seemed , For each seemed either -- black it stood as Night , Fierce as ten Furies , terrible as Hell , And shook a dreadful dart : what seemed his head The likeness of a kingly crown had on .
Each at the head Levelled his deadly aim ; their fatal hands No second stroke intend ; and such a frown Each cast at th ' other as when two black clouds , With heaven ' s artillery fraught , came rattling on Over the Caspian ,-- then stand front to front Hovering a space , till winds the signal blow To join their dark encounter in mid - air .
Hither of ill - joined sons and daughters born First from the ancient world those giants came With many a vain exploit , though then renowned : The builders next of Babel on the plain Of Sennaar , and still with vain design , New Babels , had they wherewithal , would build : Others came single ; he , who , to be deemed A God , leaped fondly into Aetna flames , Empedocles ; and he , who , to enjoy Plato ' s Elysium , leaped into the sea , Cleombrotus ; and many more too long , Embryos , and idiots , eremites , and friars White , black , and gray , with all their trumpery .
Thus God the Heaven created , thus the Earth , Matter unformed and void : Darkness profound Covered the abyss : but on the watery calm His brooding wings the Spirit of God outspread , And vital virtue infused , and vital warmth Throughout the fluid mass ; but downward purged The black tartareous cold infernal dregs , Adverse to life : then founded , then conglobed Like things to like ; the rest to several place Disparted , and between spun out the air ; And Earth self - balanced on her center hung .
Wherever thus created , for no place Is yet distinct by name , thence , as thou knowest , He brought thee into this delicious grove , This garden , planted with the trees of God , Delectable both to behold and taste ; And freely all their pleasant fruit for food Gave thee ; all sorts are here that all the Earth yields , Variety without end ; but of the tree , Which , tasted , works knowledge of good and evil , Thou mayest not ; in the day thou eatest , thou diest ; Death is the penalty imposed ; beware , And govern well thy appetite ; lest Sin Surprise thee , and her black attendant Death .
So saying , through each thicket dank or dry , Like a black mist low - creeping , he held on His midnight - search , where soonest he might find The serpent ; him fast - sleeping soon he found In labyrinth of many a round self - rolled , His head the midst , well stored with subtile wiles : Not yet in horrid shade or dismal den , Nor nocent yet ; but , on the grassy herb , Fearless unfeared he slept : in at his mouth The Devil entered ; and his brutal sense , In heart or head , possessing , soon inspired With act intelligential ; but his sleep Disturbed not , waiting close the approach of morn .
These changes in the Heavens , though slow , produced Like change on sea and land ; sideral blast , Vapour , and mist , and exhalation hot , Corrupt and pestilent : Now from the north Of Norumbega , and the Samoed shore , Bursting their brazen dungeon , armed with ice , And snow , and hail , and stormy gust and flaw , Boreas , and Caecias , and Argestes loud , And Thrascias , rend the woods , and seas upturn ; With adverse blast upturns them from the south Notus , and Afer black with thunderous clouds From Serraliona ; thwart of these , as fierce , Forth rush the Levant and the Ponent winds , Eurus and Zephyr , with their lateral noise , Sirocco and Libecchio .
Thus Adam to himself lamented loud , Through the still night ; not now , as ere Man fell , Wholesome , and cool , and mild , but with black air Accompanied ; with damps , and dreadful gloom ; Which to his evil conscience represented All things with double terrour : On the ground Outstretched he lay , on the cold ground ; and oft Cursed his creation ; Death as oft accused Of tardy execution , since denounced The day of his offence .
Mean while the south - wind rose , and , with black wings Wide - hovering , all the clouds together drove From under Heaven ; the hills to their supply Vapour , and exhalation dusk and moist , Sent up amain ; and now the thickened sky Like a dark cieling stood ; down rushed the rain Impetuous ; and continued , till the earth No more was seen : the floating vessel swum Uplifted , and secure with beaked prow Rode tilting o ' er the waves ; all dwellings else Flood overwhelmed , and them with all their pomp Deep under water rolled ; sea covered sea , Sea without shore ; and in their palaces , Where luxury late reigned , sea - monsters whelped And stabled ; of mankind , so numerous late , All left , in one small bottom swum imbarked .
He with a crew , whom like ambition joins With him or under him to tyrannize , Marching from Eden towards the west , shall find The plain , wherein a black bituminous gurge Boils out from under ground , the mouth of Hell : Of brick , and of that stuff , they cast to build A city and tower , whose top may reach to Heaven ; And get themselves a name ; lest , far dispersed In foreign lands , their memory be lost ; Regardless whether good or evil fame .
Starres hide your fires , Let not Light see my black and deepe desires : The Eye winke at the Hand : yet let that bee , Which the Eye feares , when it is done to see .
There ' s comfort yet , they are assaileable , Then be thou iocund : ere the Bat hath flowne His Cloyster ' d flight , ere to black Heccats summons The shard - borne Beetle , with his drowsie hums , Hath rung Nights yawning Peale , There shall be done a deed of dreadfull note
Light thickens , And the Crow makes Wing toth ' Rookie Wood : Good things of Day begin to droope , and drowse , Whiles Nights black Agents to their Prey ' s doe rowse .
How now you secret , black , & midnight Hags ?
Or I guess it is a uniform hieroglyphic , And it means , Sprouting alike in broad zones and narrow zones , Growing among black folks as among white , Kanuck , Tuckahoe , Congressman , Cuff , I give them the same , I receive them the same .
13 The negro holds firmly the reins of his four horses , the block swags underneath on its tied - over chain , The negro that drives the long dray of the stone - yard , steady and tall he stands pois ' d on one leg on the string - piece , His blue shirt exposes his ample neck and breast and loosens over his hip - band , His glance is calm and commanding , he tosses the slouch of his hat away from his forehead , The sun falls on his crispy hair and mustache , falls on the black of his polish ' d and perfect limbs .
I hear bravuras of birds , bustle of growing wheat , gossip of flames , clack of sticks cooking my meals , I hear the sound I love , the sound of the human voice , I hear all sounds running together , combined , fused or following , Sounds of the city and sounds out of the city , sounds of the day and night , Talkative young ones to those that like them , the loud laugh of work - people at their meals , The angry base of disjointed friendship , the faint tones of the sick , The judge with hands tight to the desk , his pallid lips pronouncing a death - sentence , The heave ' e ' yo of stevedores unlading ships by the wharves , the refrain of the anchor - lifters , The ring of alarm - bells , the cry of fire , the whirr of swift - streaking engines and hose - carts with premonitory tinkles and color ' d lights , The steam - whistle , the solid roll of the train of approaching cars , The slow march play ' d at the head of the association marching two and two , ( They go to guard some corpse , the flag - tops are draped with black muslin .)
By the city ' s quadrangular houses -- in log huts , camping with lumber - men , Along the ruts of the turnpike , along the dry gulch and rivulet bed , Weeding my onion - patch or hosing rows of carrots and parsnips , crossing savannas , trailing in forests , Prospecting , gold - digging , girdling the trees of a new purchase , Scorch ' d ankle - deep by the hot sand , hauling my boat down the shallow river , Where the panther walks to and fro on a limb overhead , where the buck turns furiously at the hunter , Where the rattlesnake suns his flabby length on a rock , where the otter is feeding on fish , Where the alligator in his tough pimples sleeps by the bayou , Where the black bear is searching for roots or honey , where the beaver pats the mud with his paddle - shaped tall ; Over the growing sugar , over the yellow - flower ' d cotton plant , over the rice in its low moist field , Over the sharp - peak ' d farm house , with its scallop ' d scum and slender shoots from the gutters , Over the western persimmon , over the long - leav ' d corn , over the delicate blue - flower flax , Over the white and brown buckwheat , a hummer and buzzer there with the rest , Over the dusky green of the rye as it ripples and shades in the breeze ; Scaling mountains , pulling myself cautiously up , holding on by low scragged limbs , Walking the path worn in the grass and beat through the leaves of the brush , Where the quail is whistling betwixt the woods and the wheat - lot , Where the bat flies in the Seventh - month eve , where the great goldbug drops through the dark , Where the brook puts out of the roots of the old tree and flows to the meadow , Where cattle stand and shake away flies with the tremulous shuddering of their hides , Where the cheese - cloth hangs in the kitchen , where andirons straddle the hearth - slab , where cobwebs fall in festoons from the rafters ; Where trip - hammers crash , where the press is whirling its cylinders , Wherever the human heart beats with terrible throes under its ribs , Where the pear - shaped balloon is floating aloft , ( floating in it myself and looking composedly down ,) Where the life - car is drawn on the slip - noose , where the heat hatches pale - green eggs in the dented sand , Where the she - whale swims with her calf and never forsakes it , Where the steam - ship trails hind - ways its long pennant of smoke , Where the fin of the shark cuts like a black chip out of the water , Where the half - burn ' d brig is riding on unknown currents , Where shells grow to her slimy deck , where the dead are corrupting below ; Where the dense - starr ' d flag is borne at the head of the regiments , Approaching Manhattan up by the long - stretching island , Under Niagara , the cataract falling like a veil over my countenance , Upon a door - step , upon the horse - block of hard wood outside , Upon the race - course , or enjoying picnics or jigs or a good game of base - ball , At he - festivals , with blackguard gibes , ironical license , bull - dances , drinking , laughter , At the cider - mill tasting the sweets of the brown mash , sucking the juice through a straw , At apple - peelings wanting kisses for all the red fruit I find , At musters , beach - parties , friendly bees , huskings , house - raisings ; Where the mocking - bird sounds his delicious gurgles , cackles , screams , weeps , Where the hay - rick stands in the barn - yard , where the dry - stalks are scatter ' d , where the brood - cow waits in the hovel , Where the bull advances to do his masculine work , where the stud to the mare , where the cock is treading the hen , Where the heifers browse , where geese nip their food with short jerks , Where sun - down shadows lengthen over the limitless and lonesome prairie , Where herds of buffalo make a crawling spread of the square miles far and near , Where the humming - bird shimmers , where the neck of the long - lived swan is curving and winding , Where the laughing - gull scoots by the shore , where she laughs her near - human laugh , Where bee - hives range on a gray bench in the garden half hid by the high weeds , Where band - neck ' d partridges roost in a ring on the ground with their heads out , Where burial coaches enter the arch ' d gates of a cemetery , Where winter wolves bark amid wastes of snow and icicled trees , Where the yellow - crown ' d heron comes to the edge of the marsh at night and feeds upon small crabs , Where the splash of swimmers and divers cools the warm noon , Where the katy - did works her chromatic reed on the walnut - tree over the well , Through patches of citrons and cucumbers with silver - wired leaves , Through the salt - lick or orange glade , or under conical firs , Through the gymnasium , through the curtain ' d saloon , through the office or public hall ; Pleas ' d with the native and pleas ' d with the foreign , pleas ' d with the new and old , Pleas ' d with the homely woman as well as the handsome , Pleas ' d with the quakeress as she puts off her bonnet and talks melodiously , Pleas ' d with the tune of the choir of the whitewash ' d church , Pleas ' d with the earnest words of the sweating Methodist preacher , impress ' d seriously at the camp - meeting ; Looking in at the shop - windows of Broadway the whole forenoon , flatting the flesh of my nose on the thick plate glass , Wandering the same afternoon with my face turn ' d up to the clouds , or down a lane or along the beach , My right and left arms round the sides of two friends , and I in the middle ; Coming home with the silent and dark - cheek ' d bush - boy , ( behind me he rides at the drape of the day ,) Far from the settlements studying the print of animals ' feet , or the moccasin print , By the cot in the hospital reaching lemonade to a feverish patient , Nigh the coffin ' d corpse when all is still , examining with a candle ; Voyaging to every port to dicker and adventure , Hurrying with the modern crowd as eager and fickle as any , Hot toward one I hate , ready in my madness to knife him , Solitary at midnight in my back yard , my thoughts gone from me a long while , Walking the old hills of Judaea with the beautiful gentle God by my side , Speeding through space , speeding through heaven and the stars , Speeding amid the seven satellites and the broad ring , and the diameter of eighty thousand miles , Speeding with tail ' d meteors , throwing fire - balls like the rest , Carrying the crescent child that carries its own full mother in its belly , Storming , enjoying , planning , loving , cautioning , Backing and filling , appearing and disappearing , I tread day and night such roads .
36 Stretch ' d and still lies the midnight , Two great hulls motionless on the breast of the darkness , Our vessel riddled and slowly sinking , preparations to pass to the one we have conquer ' d , The captain on the quarter - deck coldly giving his orders through a countenance white as a sheet , Near by the corpse of the child that serv ' d in the cabin , The dead face of an old salt with long white hair and carefully curl ' d whiskers , The flames spite of all that can be done flickering aloft and below , The husky voices of the two or three officers yet fit for duty , Formless stacks of bodies and bodies by themselves , dabs of flesh upon the masts and spars , Cut of cordage , dangle of rigging , slight shock of the soothe of waves , Black and impassive guns , litter of powder - parcels , strong scent , A few large stars overhead , silent and mournful shining , Delicate sniffs of sea - breeze , smells of sedgy grass and fields by the shore , death - messages given in charge to survivors , The hiss of the surgeon ' s knife , the gnawing teeth of his saw , Wheeze , cluck , swash of falling blood , short wild scream , and long , dull , tapering groan , These so , these irretrievable .
The black ship mail ' d with iron , her mighty guns in her turrets -- but the pluck of the captain and engineers ?
Of the turbid pool that lies in the autumn forest , Of the moon that descends the steeps of the soughing twilight , Toss , sparkles of day and dusk -- toss on the black stems that decay in the muck , Toss to the moaning gibberish of the dry limbs .
This man was a wonderful vigor , calmness , beauty of person , The shape of his head , the pale yellow and white of his hair and beard , the immeasurable meaning of his black eyes , the richness and breadth of his manners , These I used to go and visit him to see , he was wise also , He was six feet tall , he was over eighty years old , his sons were massive , clean , bearded , tan - faced , handsome , They and his daughters loved him , all who saw him loved him , They did not love him by allowance , they loved him with personal love , He drank water only , the blood show ' d like scarlet through the clear - brown skin of his face , He was a frequent gunner and fisher , he sail ' d his boat himself , he had a fine one presented to him by a ship - joiner , he had fowling - pieces presented to him by men that loved him , When he went with his five sons and many grand - sons to hunt or fish , you would pick him out as the most beautiful and vigorous of the gang , You would wish long and long to be with him , you would wish to sit by him in the boat that you and he might touch each other .
Examine these limbs , red , black , or white , they are cunning in tendon and nerve , They shall be stript that you may see them .
I hear the workman singing and the farmer ' s wife singing , I hear in the distance the sounds of children and of animals early in the day , I hear emulous shouts of Australians pursuing the wild horse , I hear the Spanish dance with castanets in the chestnut shade , to the rebeck and guitar , I hear continual echoes from the Thames , I hear fierce French liberty songs , I hear of the Italian boat - sculler the musical recitative of old poems , I hear the locusts in Syria as they strike the grain and grass with the showers of their terrible clouds , I hear the Coptic refrain toward sundown , pensively falling on the breast of the black venerable vast mother the Nile , I hear the chirp of the Mexican muleteer , and the bells of the mule , I hear the Arab muezzin calling from the top of the mosque , I hear the Christian priests at the altars of their churches , I hear the responsive base and soprano , I hear the cry of the Cossack , and the sailor ' s voice putting to sea at Okotsk , I hear the wheeze of the slave - coffle as the slaves march on , as the husky gangs pass on by twos and threes , fasten ' d together with wrist - chains and ankle - chains , I hear the Hebrew reading his records and psalms , I hear the rhythmic myths of the Greeks , and the strong legends of the Romans , I hear the tale of the divine life and bloody death of the beautiful God the Christ , I hear the Hindoo teaching his favorite pupil the loves , wars , adages , transmitted safely to this day from poets who wrote three thousand years ago .
You dim - descended , black , divine - soul ' d African , large , fine - headed , nobly - form ' d , superbly destin ' d , on equal terms with me !
Here the profound lesson of reception , nor preference nor denial , The black with his woolly head , the felon , the diseas ' d , the illiterate person , are not denied ; The birth , the hasting after the physician , the beggar ' s tramp , the drunkard ' s stagger , the laughing party of mechanics , The escaped youth , the rich person ' s carriage , the fop , the eloping couple , The early market - man , the hearse , the moving of furniture into the town , the return back from the town , They pass , I also pass , any thing passes , none can be interdicted , None but are accepted , none but shall be dear to me .
I too many and many a time cross ' d the river of old , Watched the Twelfth - month sea - gulls , saw them high in the air floating with motionless wings , oscillating their bodies , Saw how the glistening yellow lit up parts of their bodies and left the rest in strong shadow , Saw the slow - wheeling circles and the gradual edging toward the south , Saw the reflection of the summer sky in the water , Had my eyes dazzled by the shimmering track of beams , Look ' d at the fine centrifugal spokes of light round the shape of my head in the sunlit water , Look ' d on the haze on the hills southward and south - westward , Look ' d on the vapor as it flew in fleeces tinged with violet , Look ' d toward the lower bay to notice the vessels arriving , Saw their approach , saw aboard those that were near me , Saw the white sails of schooners and sloops , saw the ships at anchor , The sailors at work in the rigging or out astride the spars , The round masts , the swinging motion of the hulls , the slender serpentine pennants , The large and small steamers in motion , the pilots in their pilothouses , The white wake left by the passage , the quick tremulous whirl of the wheels , The flags of all nations , the falling of them at sunset , The scallop - edged waves in the twilight , the ladled cups , the frolic - some crests and glistening , The stretch afar growing dimmer and dimmer , the gray walls of the granite storehouses by the docks , On the river the shadowy group , the big steam - tug closely flank ' d on each side by the barges , the hay - boat , the belated lighter , On the neighboring shore the fires from the foundry chimneys burning high and glaringly into the night , Casting their flicker of black contrasted with wild red and yellow light over the tops of houses , and down into the clefts of streets .
cast black shadows at nightfall !
Always Florida ' s green peninsula -- always the priceless delta of Louisiana -- always the cotton - fields of Alabama and Texas , Always California ' s golden hills and hollows , and the silver mountains of New Mexico -- always soft - breath ' d Cuba , Always the vast slope drain ' d by the Southern sea , inseparable with the slopes drain ' d by the Eastern and Western seas , The area the eighty - third year of these States , the three and a half millions of square miles , The eighteen thousand miles of sea - coast and bay - coast on the main , the thirty thousand miles of river navigation , The seven millions of distinct families and the same number of dwellings -- always these , and more , branching forth into numberless branches , Always the free range and diversity -- always the continent of Democracy ; Always the prairies , pastures , forests , vast cities , travelers , Kanada , the snows ; Always these compact lands tied at the hips with the belt stringing the huge oval lakes ; Always the West with strong native persons , the increasing density there , the habitans , friendly , threatening , ironical , scorning invaders ; All sights , South , North , East -- all deeds , promiscuously done at all times , All characters , movements , growths , a few noticed , myriads unnoticed , Through Mannahatta ' s streets I walking , these things gathering , On interior rivers by night in the glare of pine knots , steamboats wooding up , Sunlight by day on the valley of the Susquehanna , and on the valleys of the Potomac and Rappahannock , and the valleys of the Roanoke and Delaware , In their northerly wilds beasts of prey haunting the Adirondacks the hills , or lapping the Saginaw waters to drink , In a lonesome inlet a sheldrake lost from the flock , sitting on the water rocking silently , In farmers ' barns oxen in the stable , their harvest labor done , they rest standing , they are too tired , Afar on arctic ice the she - walrus lying drowsily while her cubs play around , The hawk sailing where men have not yet sail ' d , the farthest polar sea , ripply , crystalline , open , beyond the floes , White drift spooning ahead where the ship in the tempest dashes , On solid land what is done in cities as the bells strike midnight together , In primitive woods the sounds there also sounding , the howl of the wolf , the scream of the panther , and the hoarse bellow of the elk , In winter beneath the hard blue ice of Moosehead lake , in summer visible through the clear waters , the great trout swimming , In lower latitudes in warmer air in the Carolinas the large black buzzard floating slowly high beyond the tree tops , Below , the red cedar festoon ' d with tylandria , the pines and cypresses growing out of the white sand that spreads far and flat , Rude boats descending the big Pedee , climbing plants , parasites with color ' d flowers and berries enveloping huge trees , The waving drapery on the live - oak trailing long and low , noiselessly waved by the wind , The camp of Georgia wagoners just after dark , the supper - fires and the cooking and eating by whites and negroes , Thirty or forty great wagons , the mules , cattle , horses , feeding from troughs , The shadows , gleams , up under the leaves of the old sycamore - trees , the flames with the black smoke from the pitch - pine curling and rising ; Southern fishermen fishing , the sounds and inlets of North Carolina ' s coast , the shad - fishery and the herring - fishery , the large sweep - seines , the windlasses on shore work ' d by horses , the clearing , curing , and packing - houses ; Deep in the forest in piney woods turpentine dropping from the incisions in the trees , there are the turpentine works , There are the negroes at work in good health , the ground in all directions is cover ' d with pine straw ; In Tennessee and Kentucky slaves busy in the coalings , at the forge , by the furnace - blaze , or at the corn - shucking , In Virginia , the planter ' s son returning after a long absence , joyfully welcom ' d and kiss ' d by the aged mulatto nurse , On rivers boatmen safely moor ' d at nightfall in their boats under shelter of high banks , Some of the younger men dance to the sound of the banjo or fiddle , others sit on the gunwale smoking and talking ; Late in the afternoon the mocking - bird , the American mimic , singing in the Great Dismal Swamp , There are the greenish waters , the resinous odor , the plenteous moss , the cypress - tree , and the juniper - tree ; Northward , young men of Mannahatta , the target company from an excursion returning home at evening , the musket - muzzles all bear bunches of flowers presented by women ; Children at play , or on his father ' s lap a young boy fallen asleep , ( how his lips move !
I would bind in words retrospective some of your deeds and signs , I would sing your contest for the 19th Presidentiad , I would sing how an old man , tall , with white hair , mounted the scaffold in Virginia , ( I was at hand , silent I stood with teeth shut close , I watch ' d , I stood very near you old man when cool and indifferent , but trembling with age and your unheal ' d wounds you mounted the scaffold ;) I would sing in my copious song your census returns of the States , The tables of population and products , I would sing of your ships and their cargoes , The proud black ships of Manhattan arriving , some fill ' d with immigrants , some from the isthmus with cargoes of gold , Songs thereof would I sing , to all that hitherward comes would welcome give , And you would I sing , fair stripling !
Winds blow south , or winds blow north , Day come white , or night come black , Home , or rivers and mountains from home , Singing all time , minding no time , While we two keep together .
What is that little black thing I see there in the white ?
Up through the darkness , While ravening clouds , the burial clouds , in black masses spreading , Lower sullen and fast athwart and down the sky , Amid a transparent clear belt of ether yet left in the east , Ascends large and calm the lord - star Jupiter , And nigh at hand , only a very little above , Swim the delicate sisters the Pleiades .
I will whisper it to the Mayor , he shall send a committee to England , They shall get a grant from the Parliament , go with a cart to the royal vault , Dig out King George ' s coffin , unwrap him quick from the graveclothes , box up his bones for a journey , Find a swift Yankee clipper -- here is freight for you , black - bellied clipper , Up with your anchor -- shake out your sails -- steer straight toward Boston bay .
Banner : Demons and death then I sing , Put in all , aye all will I , sword - shaped pennant for war , And a pleasure new and ecstatic , and the prattled yearning of children , Blent with the sounds of the peaceful land and the liquid wash of the sea , And the black ships fighting on the sea envelop ' d in smoke , And the icy cool of the far , far north , with rustling cedars and pines , And the whirr of drums and the sound of soldiers marching , and the hot sun shining south , And the beach - waves combing over the beach on my Eastern shore , and my Western shore the same , And all between those shores , and my ever running Mississippi with bends and chutes , And my Illinois fields , and my Kansas fields , and my fields of Missouri , The Continent , devoting the whole identity without reserving an atom , Pour in !
I mark ' d the white combs where they career ' d so high , curling over , I heard the wind piping , I saw the black clouds , Saw from below what arose and mounted , ( O superb !
Was the wind piping the pipe of death under the black clouds ?
( O the black ships !
All swims before her eyes , flashes with black , she catches the main words only , Sentences broken , gunshot wound in the breast , cavalry skirmish , taken to hospital , At present low , but will soon be better .
But the mother needs to be better , She with thin form presently drest in black , By day her meals untouch ' d , then at night fitfully sleeping , often waking , In the midnight waking , weeping , longing with one deep longing , O that she might withdraw unnoticed , silent from life escape and withdraw , To follow , to seek , to be with her dear dead son .
A march in the ranks hard - prest , and the road unknown , A route through a heavy wood with muffled steps in the darkness , Our army foil ' d with loss severe , and the sullen remnant retreating , Till after midnight glimmer upon us the lights of a dim - lighted building , We come to an open space in the woods , and halt by the dim - lighted building , ' Tis a large old church at the crossing roads , now an impromptu hospital , Entering but for a minute I see a sight beyond all the pictures and poems ever made , Shadows of deepest , deepest black , just lit by moving candles and lamps , And by one great pitchy torch stationary with wild red flame and clouds of smoke , By these , crowds , groups of forms vaguely I see on the floor , some in the pews laid down , At my feet more distinctly a soldier , a mere lad , in danger of bleeding to death , ( he is shot in the abdomen ,) I stanch the blood temporarily , ( the youngster ' s face is white as a lily ,) Then before I depart I sweep my eyes o ' er the scene fain to absorb it all , Faces , varieties , postures beyond description , most in obscurity , some of them dead , Surgeons operating , attendants holding lights , the smell of ether , odor of blood , The crowd , O the crowd of the bloody forms , the yard outside also fill ' d , Some on the bare ground , some on planks or stretchers , some in the death - spasm sweating , An occasional scream or cry , the doctor ' s shouted orders or calls , The glisten of the little steel instruments catching the glint of the torches , These I resume as I chant , I see again the forms , I smell the odor , Then hear outside the orders given , Fall in , my men , fall in ; But first I bend to the dying lad , his eyes open , a half - smile gives he me , Then the eyes close , calmly close , and I speed forth to the darkness , Resuming , marching , ever in darkness marching , on in the ranks , The unknown road still marching .
( The soldiers in companies or regiments -- some starting away , flush ' d and reckless , Some , their time up , returning with thinn ' d ranks , young , yet very old , worn , marching , noticing nothing ;) Give me the shores and wharves heavy - fringed with black ships !
O great star disappear ' d -- O the black murk that hides the star !
6 Coffin that passes through lanes and streets , Through day and night with the great cloud darkening the land , With the pomp of the inloop ' d flags with the cities draped in black , With the show of the States themselves as of crape - veil ' d women standing , With processions long and winding and the flambeaus of the night , With the countless torches lit , with the silent sea of faces and the unbared heads , With the waiting depot , the arriving coffin , and the sombre faces , With dirges through the night , with the thousand voices rising strong and solemn , With all the mournful voices of the dirges pour ' d around the coffin , The dim - lit churches and the shuddering organs -- where amid these you journey , With the tolling tolling bells ' perpetual clang , Here , coffin that slowly passes , I give you my sprig of lilac .
8 O western orb sailing the heaven , Now I know what you must have meant as a month since I walk ' d , As I walk ' d in silence the transparent shadowy night , As I saw you had something to tell as you bent to me night after night , As you droop ' d from the sky low down as if to my side , ( while the other stars all look ' d on ,) As we wander ' d together the solemn night , ( for something I know not what kept me from sleep ,) As the night advanced , and I saw on the rim of the west how full you were of woe , As I stood on the rising ground in the breeze in the cool transparent night , As I watch ' d where you pass ' d and was lost in the netherward black of the night , As my soul in its trouble dissatisfied sank , as where you sad orb , Concluded , dropt in the night , and was gone .
14 Now while I sat in the day and look ' d forth , In the close of the day with its light and the fields of spring , and the farmers preparing their crops , In the large unconscious scenery of my land with its lakes and forests , In the heavenly aerial beauty , ( after the perturb ' d winds and the storms ,) Under the arching heavens of the afternoon swift passing , and the voices of children and women , The many - moving sea - tides , and I saw the ships how they sail ' d , And the summer approaching with richness , and the fields all busy with labor , And the infinite separate houses , how they all went on , each with its meals and minutia of daily usages , And the streets how their throbbings throbb ' d , and the cities pent -- lo , then and there , Falling upon them all and among them all , enveloping me with the rest , Appear ' d the cloud , appear ' d the long black trail , And I knew death , its thought , and the sacred knowledge of death .
On my Northwest coast in the midst of the night a fishermen ' s group stands watching , Out on the lake that expands before them , others are spearing salmon , The canoe , a dim shadowy thing , moves across the black water , Bearing a torch ablaze at the prow .
Thee coil ' d in evil times my country , with craft and black dismay , with every meanness , treason thrust upon thee , This common marvel I beheld -- the parent thrush I watch ' d feeding its young , The singing thrush whose tones of joy and faith ecstatic , Fail not to certify and cheer my soul .
A red squaw came one breakfast - time to the old homestead , On her back she carried a bundle of rushes for rush - bottoming chairs , Her hair , straight , shiny , coarse , black , profuse , half - envelop ' d her face , Her step was free and elastic , and her voice sounded exquisitely as she spoke .
Slow - moving and black lines creep over the whole earth -- they never cease -- they are the burial lines , He that was President was buried , and he that is now President shall surely be buried .
8 Slow moving and black lines go ceaselessly over the earth , Northerner goes carried and Southerner goes carried , and they on the Atlantic side and they on the Pacific , And they between , and all through the Mississippi country , and all over the earth .
3 Aloof , dissatisfied , plotting revolt , Comrade of criminals , brother of slaves , Crafty , despised , a drudge , ignorant , With sudra face and worn brow , black , but in the depths of my heart , proud as any , Lifted now and always against whoever scorning assumes to rule me , Morose , full of guile , full of reminiscences , brooding , with many wiles , ( Though it was thought I was baffled , and dispel ' d , and my wiles done , but that will never be ,) Defiant , I , Satan , still live , still utter words , in new lands duly appearing , ( and old ones also ,) Permanent here from my side , warlike , equal with any , real as any , Nor time nor change shall ever change me or my words .
The conceits of the poets of other lands I ' d bring thee not , Nor the compliments that have served their turn so long , Nor rhyme , nor the classics , nor perfume of foreign court or indoor library ; But an odor I ' d bring as from forests of pine in Maine , or breath of an Illinois prairie , With open airs of Virginia or Georgia or Tennessee , or from Texas uplands , or Florida ' s glades , Or the Saguenay ' s black stream , or the wide blue spread of Huron , With presentment of Yellowstone ' s scenes , or Yosemite , And murmuring under , pervading all , I ' d bring the rustling sea - sound , That endlessly sounds from the two Great Seas of the world .
Off the word I have spoken I except not one -- red , white , black , are all deific , In each house is the ovum , it comes forth after a thousand years .
Thee for my recitative , Thee in the driving storm even as now , the snow , the winter - day declining , Thee in thy panoply , thy measur ' d dual throbbing and thy beat convulsive , Thy black cylindric body , golden brass and silvery steel , Thy ponderous side - bars , parallel and connecting rods , gyrating , shuttling at thy sides , Thy metrical , now swelling pant and roar , now tapering in the distance , Thy great protruding head - light fix ' d in front , Thy long , pale , floating vapor - pennants , tinged with delicate purple , The dense and murky clouds out - belching from thy smoke - stack , Thy knitted frame , thy springs and valves , the tremulous twinkle of thy wheels , Thy train of cars behind , obedient , merrily following , Through gale or calm , now swift , now slack , yet steadily careering ; Type of the modern -- emblem of motion and power -- pulse of the continent , For once come serve the Muse and merge in verse , even as here I see thee , With storm and buffeting gusts of wind and falling snow , By day thy warning ringing bell to sound its notes , By night thy silent signal lamps to swing .
Now I see what there is in a name , a word , liquid , sane , unruly , musical , self - sufficient , I see that the word of my city is that word from of old , Because I see that word nested in nests of water - bays , superb , Rich , hemm ' d thick all around with sailships and steamships , an island sixteen miles long , solid - founded , Numberless crowded streets , high growths of iron , slender , strong , light , splendidly uprising toward clear skies , Tides swift and ample , well - loved by me , toward sundown , The flowing sea - currents , the little islands , larger adjoining islands , the heights , the villas , The countless masts , the white shore - steamers , the lighters , the ferry - boats , the black sea - steamers well - model ' d , The down - town streets , the jobbers ' houses of business , the houses of business of the ship - merchants and money - brokers , the river - streets , Immigrants arriving , fifteen or twenty thousand in a week , The carts hauling goods , the manly race of drivers of horses , the brown - faced sailors , The summer air , the bright sun shining , and the sailing clouds aloft , The winter snows , the sleigh - bells , the broken ice in the river , passing along up or down with the flood - tide or ebb - tide , The mechanics of the city , the masters , well - form ' d , beautiful - faced , looking you straight in the eyes , Trottoirs throng ' d , vehicles , Broadway , the women , the shops and shows , A million people -- manners free and superb -- open voices -- hospitality -- the most courageous and friendly young men , City of hurried and sparkling waters !
