She was short , plump , and fair , with a fine bloom , blue eyes , light hair , regular features , and a look of great sweetness , and , before the end of the evening , Emma was as much pleased with her manners as her person , and quite determined to continue the acquaintance .
Those soft blue eyes , and all those natural graces , should not be wasted on the inferior society of Highbury and its connexions .
She was so busy in admiring those soft blue eyes , in talking and listening , and forming all these schemes in the in - betweens , that the evening flew away at a very unusual rate ; and the supper - table , which always closed such parties , and for which she had been used to sit and watch the due time , was all set out and ready , and moved forwards to the fire , before she was aware .
Emma watched them in , and then joined Harriet at the interesting counter ,-- trying , with all the force of her own mind , to convince her that if she wanted plain muslin it was of no use to look at figured ; and that a blue ribbon , be it ever so beautiful , would still never match her yellow pattern .
could the originals of the portraits against the wainscot , could the gentlemen in brown velvet and the ladies in blue satin have seen what was going on , have been conscious of such an overthrow of all order and neatness !
Lord Byron ' s " dark blue seas " could not fail of being brought forward by their present view , and she gladly gave him all her attention as long as attention was possible .
They gaily ascended the downs , rejoicing in their own penetration at every glimpse of blue sky ; and when they caught in their faces the animating gales of a high south - westerly wind , they pitied the fears which had prevented their mother and Elinor from sharing such delightful sensations .
25 : 3 And this is the offering which ye shall take of them ; gold , and silver , and brass , 25 : 4 And blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine linen , and goats ' hair , 25 : 5 And rams ' skins dyed red , and badgers ' skins , and shittim wood , 25 : 6 Oil for the light , spices for anointing oil , and for sweet incense , 25 : 7 Onyx stones , and stones to be set in the ephod , and in the breastplate .
26 : 1 Moreover thou shalt make the tabernacle with ten curtains of fine twined linen , and blue , and purple , and scarlet : with cherubims of cunning work shalt thou make them .
26 : 4 And thou shalt make loops of blue upon the edge of the one curtain from the selvedge in the coupling ; and likewise shalt thou make in the uttermost edge of another curtain , in the coupling of the second .
26 : 31 And thou shalt make a vail of blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine twined linen of cunning work : with cherubims shall it be made : 26 : 32 And thou shalt hang it upon four pillars of shittim wood overlaid with gold : their hooks shall be of gold , upon the four sockets of silver .
26 : 36 And thou shalt make an hanging for the door of the tent , of blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine twined linen , wrought with needlework .
27 : 16 And for the gate of the court shall be an hanging of twenty cubits , of blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine twined linen , wrought with needlework : and their pillars shall be four , and their sockets four .
28 : 5 And they shall take gold , and blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine linen .
28 : 6 And they shall make the ephod of gold , of blue , and of purple , of scarlet , and fine twined linen , with cunning work .
28 : 8 And the curious girdle of the ephod , which is upon it , shall be of the same , according to the work thereof ; even of gold , of blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine twined linen .
28 : 15 And thou shalt make the breastplate of judgment with cunning work ; after the work of the ephod thou shalt make it ; of gold , of blue , and of purple , and of scarlet , and of fine twined linen , shalt thou make it .
28 : 28 And they shall bind the breastplate by the rings thereof unto the rings of the ephod with a lace of blue , that it may be above the curious girdle of the ephod , and that the breastplate be not loosed from the ephod .
28 : 31 And thou shalt make the robe of the ephod all of blue .
28 : 33 And beneath upon the hem of it thou shalt make pomegranates of blue , and of purple , and of scarlet , round about the hem thereof ; and bells of gold between them round about : 28 : 34 A golden bell and a pomegranate , a golden bell and a pomegranate , upon the hem of the robe round about .
28 : 37 And thou shalt put it on a blue lace , that it may be upon the mitre ; upon the forefront of the mitre it shall be .
35 : 4 And Moses spake unto all the congregation of the children of Israel , saying , This is the thing which the LORD commanded , saying , 35 : 5 Take ye from among you an offering unto the LORD : whosoever is of a willing heart , let him bring it , an offering of the LORD ; gold , and silver , and brass , 35 : 6 And blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine linen , and goats ' hair , 35 : 7 And rams ' skins dyed red , and badgers ' skins , and shittim wood , 35 : 8 And oil for the light , and spices for anointing oil , and for the sweet incense , 35 : 9 And onyx stones , and stones to be set for the ephod , and for the breastplate .
35 : 23 And every man , with whom was found blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine linen , and goats ' hair , and red skins of rams , and badgers ' skins , brought them .
35 : 25 And all the women that were wise hearted did spin with their hands , and brought that which they had spun , both of blue , and of purple , and of scarlet , and of fine linen .
35 : 35 Them hath he filled with wisdom of heart , to work all manner of work , of the engraver , and of the cunning workman , and of the embroiderer , in blue , and in purple , in scarlet , and in fine linen , and of the weaver , even of them that do any work , and of those that devise cunning work .
36 : 8 And every wise hearted man among them that wrought the work of the tabernacle made ten curtains of fine twined linen , and blue , and purple , and scarlet : with cherubims of cunning work made he them .
36 : 11 And he made loops of blue on the edge of one curtain from the selvedge in the coupling : likewise he made in the uttermost side of another curtain , in the coupling of the second .
36 : 35 And he made a vail of blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine twined linen : with cherubims made he it of cunning work .
36 : 37 And he made an hanging for the tabernacle door of blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine twined linen , of needlework ; 36 : 38 And the five pillars of it with their hooks : and he overlaid their chapiters and their fillets with gold : but their five sockets were of brass .
38 : 18 And the hanging for the gate of the court was needlework , of blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine twined linen : and twenty cubits was the length , and the height in the breadth was five cubits , answerable to the hangings of the court .
38 : 23 And with him was Aholiab , son of Ahisamach , of the tribe of Dan , an engraver , and a cunning workman , and an embroiderer in blue , and in purple , and in scarlet , and fine linen .
39 : 1 And of the blue , and purple , and scarlet , they made cloths of service , to do service in the holy place , and made the holy garments for Aaron ; as the LORD commanded Moses .
39 : 2 And he made the ephod of gold , blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine twined linen .
39 : 3 And they did beat the gold into thin plates , and cut it into wires , to work it in the blue , and in the purple , and in the scarlet , and in the fine linen , with cunning work .
39 : 5 And the curious girdle of his ephod , that was upon it , was of the same , according to the work thereof ; of gold , blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine twined linen ; as the LORD commanded Moses .
39 : 8 And he made the breastplate of cunning work , like the work of the ephod ; of gold , blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine twined linen .
39 : 21 And they did bind the breastplate by his rings unto the rings of the ephod with a lace of blue , that it might be above the curious girdle of the ephod , and that the breastplate might not be loosed from the ephod ; as the LORD commanded Moses .
39 : 22 And he made the robe of the ephod of woven work , all of blue .
39 : 24 And they made upon the hems of the robe pomegranates of blue , and purple , and scarlet , and twined linen .
39 : 27 And they made coats of fine linen of woven work for Aaron , and for his sons , 39 : 28 And a mitre of fine linen , and goodly bonnets of fine linen , and linen breeches of fine twined linen , 39 : 29 And a girdle of fine twined linen , and blue , and purple , and scarlet , of needlework ; as the LORD commanded Moses .
39 : 31 And they tied unto it a lace of blue , to fasten it on high upon the mitre ; as the LORD commanded Moses .
4 : 4 This shall be the service of the sons of Kohath in the tabernacle of the congregation , about the most holy things : 4 : 5 And when the camp setteth forward , Aaron shall come , and his sons , and they shall take down the covering vail , and cover the ark of testimony with it : 4 : 6 And shall put thereon the covering of badgers ' skins , and shall spread over it a cloth wholly of blue , and shall put in the staves thereof .
4 : 7 And upon the table of shewbread they shall spread a cloth of blue , and put thereon the dishes , and the spoons , and the bowls , and covers to cover withal : and the continual bread shall be thereon : 4 : 8 And they shall spread upon them a cloth of scarlet , and cover the same with a covering of badgers ' skins , and shall put in the staves thereof .
4 : 9 And they shall take a cloth of blue , and cover the candlestick of the light , and his lamps , and his tongs , and his snuffdishes , and all the oil vessels thereof , wherewith they minister unto it : 4 : 10 And they shall put it and all the vessels thereof within a covering of badgers ' skins , and shall put it upon a bar .
4 : 11 And upon the golden altar they shall spread a cloth of blue , and cover it with a covering of badgers ' skins , and shall put to the staves thereof : 4 : 12 And they shall take all the instruments of ministry , wherewith they minister in the sanctuary , and put them in a cloth of blue , and cover them with a covering of badgers ' skins , and shall put them on a bar : 4 : 13 And they shall take away the ashes from the altar , and spread a purple cloth thereon : 4 : 14 And they shall put upon it all the vessels thereof , wherewith they minister about it , even the censers , the fleshhooks , and the shovels , and the basons , all the vessels of the altar ; and they shall spread upon it a covering of badgers ' skins , and put to the staves of it .
15 : 37 And the LORD spake unto Moses , saying , 15 : 38 Speak unto the children of Israel , and bid them that they make them fringes in the borders of their garments throughout their generations , and that they put upon the fringe of the borders a ribband of blue : 15 : 39 And it shall be unto you for a fringe , that ye may look upon it , and remember all the commandments of the LORD , and do them ; and that ye seek not after your own heart and your own eyes , after which ye use to go a whoring : 15 : 40 That ye may remember , and do all my commandments , and be holy unto your God .
2 : 7 Send me now therefore a man cunning to work in gold , and in silver , and in brass , and in iron , and in purple , and crimson , and blue , and that can skill to grave with the cunning men that are with me in Judah and in Jerusalem , whom David my father did provide .
2 : 13 And now I have sent a cunning man , endued with understanding , of Huram my father ' s , 2 : 14 The son of a woman of the daughters of Dan , and his father was a man of Tyre , skilful to work in gold , and in silver , in brass , in iron , in stone , and in timber , in purple , in blue , and in fine linen , and in crimson ; also to grave any manner of graving , and to find out every device which shall be put to him , with thy cunning men , and with the cunning men of my lord David thy father .
3 : 14 And he made the vail of blue , and purple , and crimson , and fine linen , and wrought cherubims thereon .
1 : 5 And when these days were expired , the king made a feast unto all the people that were present in Shushan the palace , both unto great and small , seven days , in the court of the garden of the king ' s palace ; 1 : 6 Where were white , green , and blue , hangings , fastened with cords of fine linen and purple to silver rings and pillars of marble : the beds were of gold and silver , upon a pavement of red , and blue , and white , and black , marble .
8 : 15 And Mordecai went out from the presence of the king in royal apparel of blue and white , and with a great crown of gold , and with a garment of fine linen and purple : and the city of Shushan rejoiced and was glad .
10 : 9 Silver spread into plates is brought from Tarshish , and gold from Uphaz , the work of the workman , and of the hands of the founder : blue and purple is their clothing : they are all the work of cunning men .
23 : 5 And Aholah played the harlot when she was mine ; and she doted on her lovers , on the Assyrians her neighbours , 23 : 6 Which were clothed with blue , captains and rulers , all of them desirable young men , horsemen riding upon horses .
27 : 7 Fine linen with broidered work from Egypt was that which thou spreadest forth to be thy sail ; blue and purple from the isles of Elishah was that which covered thee .
27 : 24 These were thy merchants in all sorts of things , in blue clothes , and broidered work , and in chests of rich apparel , bound with cords , and made of cedar , among thy merchandise .
' Twas on a Holy Thursday , their innocent faces clean , Came children walking two and two , in read , and blue , and green : Grey - headed beadles walked before , with wands as white as snow , Till into the high dome of Paul ' s they like Thames waters flow .
There ' s a garden that I ken , Full of little gentlemen ; Little caps of blue they wear , And green ribbons , very fair .
One hot summer morning a little Cloud rose out of the sea and floated lightly and happily across the blue sky .
Day and night go again and again ; little by little the snow melts all away ; the ground grows soft ; the sky is blue ; the little birds fly over , crying , " It is spring !
Then some pretty ladies , with white caps on their heads and white aprons over their blue dresses , came bringing little parcels .
It was a valley of brown , bare , desert soil , in a climate where almost no rain falls ; but the snow on the mountain - tops sent down little streams of pure water , the winds were gentle , and lying like a blue jewel at the foot of the western hills was a marvellous lake of salt water ,-- an inland sea .
" Flowers ," said Margery , with shining eyes ,--" blue , and white , and yellow , and pink ,-- every kind of flower !"
She did not know that a helianthus was a sunflower until her mother told her so , and she had never seen the dear , blue , bell - shaped flowers that always grow in old - fashioned gardens , and are called Canterbury bells .
And then , in little square patches all round the garden , were planted London pride , blue bachelor ' s buttons , yellow marigolds , tall larkspur , many - coloured asters , hollyhocks and stocks .
It is said that there were two quite different kinds of people in Ireland : one set of people with long dark hair and dark eyes , called Fomorians -- they carried long slender spears made of golden bronze when they fought -- and another race of people who were golden - haired and blue - eyed , and who carried short , blunt , heavy spears of dull metal .
Now Buster had reached the Old Pasture just as jolly , round , red Mr . Sun had crept out of bed , and he had fully made up his mind that he would be back in the Green Forest before Mr . Sun had climbed very far up in the blue , blue sky .
Jolly , round , red Mr . Sun climbed higher and higher in the blue , blue sky .
Pretty soon Ol ' Mistah Buzzard came dropping down out of the blue , blue sky and took a seat on a convenient dead tree , where he could see all that went on .
The flying ship of Professor Lucifer sang through the skies like a silver arrow ; the bleak white steel of it , gleaming in the bleak blue emptiness of the evening .
He knew that Our Lady ' s robes were blue before he knew the wild roses round her feet were red .
Evan opened his great , blue eyes ; " God ," he began .
The front window had a glimmer of bronze and blue steel , lit , as by a few stars , by the sparks of what were alleged to be jewels ; for it was in brief , a shop of bric - a - brac and old curiosities .
asked MacIan , opening his great grave blue eyes .
At the first glance he looked a fine animal , with curling gold beard and hair , and blue eyes , unusually bright .
And it was only , perhaps , at the hundredth glance that the bright blue eyes , which normally before and after the instant seemed brilliant with intelligence , seemed as it were to be brilliant with idiocy .
Without enlarging further on the fixed form of his appeal to the Church of Rome , he laughed cordially at Turnbull ' s answer ; then his wandering blue eyes caught the sunlight on the swords , and he assumed a good - humoured gravity .
MacIan turned his blue , blinking eyes , which seemed still misty with sleep ( or sleeplessness ) towards the idol , but his brows drew together .
At about half past one , under a strong blue sky , Turnbull got up out of the grass and fern in which he had been lying , and his still intermittent laughter ended in a kind of yawn .
Turnbull ' s big blue - grey eyes stood open with a grave astonishment .
He burst the door open on a blue abyss of evening and they stepped out into it : it was suddenly and strangely cool .
Yes , there is a real difference between the natural and the supernatural : if you flew up into that blue sky this instant , I should think that you were moved by God -- or the devil .
He was a man elderly or rather of any age , with lean grey hair and a lean red face , but with that remarkable rustic physiognomy in which it seems that all the features stand out independently from the face ; the rugged red nose going out like a limb ; the bleared blue eyes standing out like signals .
Moonrise with a great and growing moon opened over all those flats , making them seem flatter and larger than they were , turning them to a lake of blue light .
MacIan stood rolling those great blue Gaelic eyes that contrasted with his dark hair .
The silver moonlight picked out a piece or two of pewter ornament on his blue uniform ; and as they went by they knew it was a sergeant of police .
The amateur chauffeur had been forced to bring the car to a staggering stoppage , for a file of fat , blue policemen made a wall across the way .
Round the rays of the victorious sun swept a sort of rainbow of confused and conquered colours -- brown and blue and green and flaming rose - colour ; as though gold were driving before it all the colours of the world .
Before the duellists had exchanged half a dozen passes , the big , blue policeman appeared once more on the top of the hill , a palpable monstrosity in the eye of heaven .
At the same moment a mass of blue blocked the corner of the road behind the small , smart figure of Turnbull , and a small company of policemen in the English uniform came up at a kind of half - military double .
But why the blue blazes should you interfere , you great blue blundering sausages ?"
Anything that was heavy in all this was abruptly lightened by two large , light china - blue eyes , lightened all of a sudden as if it had been lifted into the air by two big blue butterflies .
Ye he was decidedly a handsome figure with his curled yellow hair and lean fastidious face ; and he wore a peculiar frock - coat of bright turquoise blue , with an unknown order pinned to it , and he carried a huge and heavy cane .
In such casual atmospheres only the enthusiastic go to Benediction ; and as the warm blue twilight closed over the little candle - lit church and village , the line of worshippers who went home from the former to the latter thinned out until it broke .
The others seemed to melt away afterwards into the peacock colours of the dim green grass and the dark blue sky .
The glowing and transparent blue of twilight had long been covered by the opaque and slatelike blue of night , when he handed her into the lamp - lit interior of her home .
" You always go to Mass ," answered the girl , opening her wide blue eyes , " and the Mass is very long and tiresome unless one loves God ."
On three sides of this shelly and sandy islet the sea stretched blue and infinite without a speck of land or sail ; the same as Turnbull had first seen it , except that the tide being out it showed a few yards more of slanting sand under the roots of the rocks .
The roses were red hot ; the clematis was , so to speak , blue hot .
Down the centre of the central garden path , preceded by a blue cloud from a cigarette , was walking a gentleman who evidently understood all the relish of a garden in the very early morning .
He was out in the garden on one such luminous and ghostly night , when the steady moonshine toned down all the colours of the garden until almost the strongest tints to be seen were the strong soft blue of the sky and the large lemon moon .
The next moment the thing drove right across the moon , and from being silver upon blue , suddenly became black upon silver ; then although it passed the field of light in a flash its outline was unmistakable though eccentric .
And yet while his face seemed like a scripture older than the gods , his eyes were quite bright , blue , and startled like those of a baby .
" Spike is the best ," said the old man , opening his blue eyes blazing ; " it sticks out ."
The weird old person opened his broad blue eyes and fixed Turnbull with a stare extraordinarily severe .
At length the round face was lifted again , and showed two round blue eyes with a certain frankness in them .
He had seen the blue but gloomy eyes of the western Highlander troubled by as many tempests as his own west Highland seas , but there had always been a fixed star of faith behind the storms .
Two of the three passages leading out of the hall were choked with blue smoke .
His blue eyes looked extraordinarily brilliant and beautiful .
THE consulting - rooms of Dr Orion Hood , the eminent criminologist and specialist in certain moral disorders , lay along the sea - front at Scarborough , in a series of very large and well - lighted french windows , which showed the North Sea like one endless outer wall of blue - green marble .
In such a place the sea had something of the monotony of a blue - green dado : for the chambers themselves were ruled throughout by a terrible tidiness not unlike the terrible tidiness of the sea .
Then , advancing into the middle of the room with a bow , he produced from his pocket a big bill printed in blue and red , which announced that ZALADIN , the World ' s Greatest Conjurer , Contortionist , Ventriloquist and Human Kangaroo would be ready with an entirely new series of Tricks at the Empire Pavilion , Scarborough , on Monday next at eight o ' clock precisely .
He ' s not clever , he ' s got eyes like blue buttons ; he ' s not energetic , he moves from chair to chair like a paralytic .
He was a massive elderly man with a boiled blue eye and faded grey - sandy moustaches ; but for his heavy stoop he might have been a colonel .
He was very pale , and he wore blue spectacles .
" Suppose someone sent you to find a house with a green door and a blue blind , with a front garden but no back garden , with a dog but no cat , and where they drank coffee but not tea .
I say if you found a house where the door was blue and the blind green , where there was a back garden and no front garden , where cats were common and dogs instantly shot , where tea was drunk in quarts and coffee forbidden -- then you would know you had found the house .
For a spasm Flambeau saw the fierce , red - brown eyes dancing , then they were covered with a pair of blue spectacles .
His military moustache and the carriage of his shoulders showed him a soldier , but he had a pair of those peculiar frank and piercing blue eyes which are more common in sailors .
She was clad in a somewhat strange garb of peacock green and peacock blue satins , that gleamed like blue and green metals , such as delight children and aesthetes , and her heavy , hot brown hair framed one of those magic faces which are dangerous to all men , but especially to boys and to men growing grey .
His tinted glasses were not really opaque , but of a blue kind common enough , nor were the eyes behind them shifty , but regarded me steadily .
He was a stoutish , fair man , in his shirt - sleeves ; his movements were resolute , his mouth firm and his tones final ; but his round , rather babyish blue eyes had a bewildered and even wistful look that rather contradicted all this .
He took up a strip of proof instead , ran down it with a blue eye , and a blue pencil , altered the word " adultery " to the word " impropriety ," and the word " Jew " to the word " Alien ," rang a bell and sent it flying upstairs .
Then he took up another strip of proof and a blue pencil , and altered the word " supernatural " to the word " marvellous ", and the expression " shoot down " to the expression " repress ".
In such happy , healthful activities did Mr Nutt disport himself , until the ensuing Saturday found him at the same desk , dictating to the same typist , and using the same blue pencil on the first instalment of Mr Finn ' s revelations .
But outside the door was a sign which called it the Blue Dragon ; and under the sign was one of those long rustic tables that used to stand outside most of the free English inns , before teetotallers and brewers between them destroyed freedom .
A day or two afterward found the active and judicious editor examining , with blue eyes that seemed to grow rounder and rounder , the second instalment of Mr Finn ' s tale of mysteries in high life .
The trampled earth of the river - banks and the peaty stain in the pools did not look drab but glowing umber , and the dark woods astir in the breeze did not look , as usual , dim blue with mere depth of distance , but more like wind - tumbled masses of some vivid violet blossom .
He wore an ordinary dark - blue jacket , with nothing special about the buttons , but the combination of it with white linen trousers somehow had a sailorish look .
They were all thrown a little off their balance , and the more fanciful Fanshaw had even some difficulty in recovering his , as they saw a long , thin stream of blue smoke ascending silently into the end of the evening light .
The line of the sea looked frozen in the very vividness of its violet - blue , like the vein of a frozen finger .
The yellow lamps were beginning to be lit in the cold blue twilight , and they were evidently approaching the more central parts of the town .
MR CALHOUN KIDD was a very young gentleman with a very old face , a face dried up with its own eagerness , framed in blue - black hair and a black butterfly tie .
Nothing could be more different than his cynical negligence from the dapper dryness of the young American ; but something in his pencil and open notebook , and perhaps in the expression of his alert blue eye , caused Kidd to guess , correctly , that he was a brother journalist .
The apex of the triangle of dark - blue sky was growing brighter and bluer , but he did not realize as yet that this was because he was coming nearer to the lights of the great house and garden .
The sky was as Prussian a blue as Potsdam itself could require , but it was yet more like that lavish and glowing use of the colour which a child extracts from a shilling paint - box .
Even the grey - ribbed trees looked young , for the pointed buds on them were still pink , and in a pattern against the strong blue looked like innumerable childish figures .
The little pink clouds , that looked rather like sweet - stuff , had floated up to crown the turrets of the gilt gingerbread castle , and the pink baby fingers of the budding trees seemed spreading and stretching to reach them ; the blue sky began to take a bright violet of evening , when Father Brown suddenly spoke again :
" The old man in the black gown had hitherto continued to gaze at him with watery blue eyes and a sort of weak wisdom in his face .
" The moon had risen in strengthening silver , and the sky showed in stripes of bright , nocturnal blue between the black stripes of the pines about the castle .
The man with the meek blue eyes and the pale , pointed beard endured these thunders with a certain submissive solemnity .
Syme sat watching him with some respect in his large , blue eyes .
Syme looked straight into those frightful eyes with his own pale blue ones , and said with dignity --
But you could not have guessed it from Syme ' s bleak blue eyes .
At the end of the passage was a door , which Buttons opened sharply , showing a sudden blue and silver picture of the moonlit river , that looked like a scene in a theatre .
Syme , at a crisis of his morbid fears for humanity , seemed stung by the mere stolidity of the automatic official , a mere bulk of blue in the twilight .
How comes a man like you to be talking philosophy in a blue helmet on the Thames embankment ?
" The work of the philosophical policeman ," replied the man in blue , " is at once bolder and more subtle than that of the ordinary detective .
Acting under the advice of his friend the policeman ( who was professionally inclined to neatness ), he trimmed his hair and beard , bought a good hat , clad himself in an exquisite summer suit of light blue - grey , with a pale yellow flower in the button - hole , and , in short , became that elegant and rather insupportable person whom Gregory had first encountered in the little garden of Saffron Park .
Before he finally left the police premises his friend provided him with a small blue card , on which was written , " The Last Crusade ," and a number , the sign of his official authority .
His black beard looked as if it were only black by being too deep a blue .
In the bright coloured Persian tiles and pictures showing tyrants hunting , you may see just those almond eyes , those blue - black beards , those cruel , crimson lips .
The enormous man was quite quiet , but his blue eyes stood out of his head .
The alleged Pole was a little pale under his tangle of dark hair , but he put two fingers into the pocket with apparent coolness and pulled out a blue strip of card .
For although the card lay at the other extreme of the table , and he could read nothing of the inscription on it , it bore a startling resemblance to the blue card in his own pocket , the card which had been given to him when he joined the anti - anarchist constabulary .
And with these words he laid on the table before Syme an exact facsimile of the blue card which Syme had in his own waistcoat pocket , the symbol of his power from the police .
Taking his own blue police ticket from his own waist coat pocket , he tossed it on to the table ; then he flung his head back until his spike of yellow beard almost pointed at the ceiling , and shouted with a barbaric laughter .
The Professor lifted his heavy lids , and gazed at Syme with large , wide - open , blue eyes of an almost ethereal honesty .
He offered me a good salary and this little blue card .
Syme stood staring back at the stiff face like parchment and the blank , blue eyes .
There ' s my card ," and he flung down the blue card upon the table .
Yes , I ' m in the force right enough ," and he flicked a blue card towards them lightly as a matter of form .
I hope you won ' t despise me for having been in a blue funk ."
" All the blue devils in blue hell ," said Syme , " contributed to my blue funk !
SYME sat down at a cafe table with his companions , his blue eyes sparkling like the bright sea below , and ordered a bottle of Saumur with a pleased impatience .
Just so , Syme thought , would the brown - gold face of such a tyrant have shown against the dark green olives and the burning blue .
He could almost fancy that he heard the grass growing ; he could almost fancy that even as he stood fresh flowers were springing up and breaking into blossom in the meadow -- flowers blood red and burning gold and blue , fulfilling the whole pageant of the spring .
But if there is any doubt about my position , I have a card " and he began to pull a blue card from his pocket .
Down this direct descent the cart clattered at a considerable angle , and in a few minutes , the road growing yet steeper , they saw below them the little harbour of Lancy and a great blue arc of the sea .
Almost as he spoke , the old innkeeper with the blue eyes and white hair came ambling into the room , and announced that six horses were saddled outside .
By sheer force he tore the lamp out of his own ceiling , shattering the painted panels , and bringing down two blue vases with his violence .
Syme turned his bright blue eyes on Bull with an earnestness which he did not commonly make clear .
" I am a detective from Scotland Yard ," and he took a small blue card from his pocket .
" I don ' t understand a word of all that idea of his being the same man who gave us all our blue cards .
He was clad in a fine but old - fashioned suit with knee - breeches ; its colour was that shade between blue , violet and grey which can be seen in certain shadows of the woodland .
Along the side of these carriages stood a rank of splendid servants , all dressed in the grey - blue uniform , and all having a certain quality of stateliness and freedom which would not commonly belong to the servants of a gentleman , but rather to the officials and ambassadors of a great king .
Exactly at the same moment a man in blue , who had been appointed as his valet , said very solemnly --
The servant lifted off a kind of ottoman a long peacock - blue drapery , rather of the nature of a domino , on the front of which was emblazoned a large golden sun , and which was splashed here and there with flaming stars and crescents .
But though he affected to despise the mummery , he felt a curious freedom and naturalness in his movements as the blue and gold garment fell about him ; and when he found that he had to wear a sword , it stirred a boyish dream .
He seemed to have a fine close suit with knee - breeches such as that which was worn by the servants of the house , only that it was not blue , but of this absolute sable .
You are the police -- the great fat , smiling men in blue and buttons !
She had a broken tobacco - pipe in her mouth ; her head was wrapped up in two large red and blue handkerchiefs , with their crooked corners hanging far down over the back of her neck , no shoes on her broad feet , nor stockings on her many - coloured legs .
The door was opened by a large , red - faced man , in a blue coat and scarlet waistcoat , to whom he felt afraid to give his message , lest he should not be a servant .
The butcher looked aside , and hastily rubbed his eyes with the corner of his blue apron .
Her little brothers begged the man to stay a few minutes , for they had gathered a handful of blue speedwell and yellow crowsfoot , and they were decking the poor animal .
" Their Royal Highnesses the Dukes of Kent and Cumberland , Earl Morton , and General Gwynne , all on horseback , dressed in the Windsor uniform , except the Prince of Wales , who wore a suit of dark blue , and a brown surtout over .
" Mr . Knapp , flesh - colour and blue ; Spanish hat and feathers .
" Mr . Drury , mazarin blue ; fancy cap .
" Mr . Lloyd , blue ; ditto .
And it must be allowed that nothing in nature can have a better effect than Mr . Drake ' s flesh - colour and blue , with this Spanish hat , ma ' m , you see .
we shall be late indeed ," said Hal ; " surely you ' ve looked long enough , Ben , at this blue and red window ."
" Oh , I only mixed red , blue , green and yellow , to show you , Marianne , that all colours mixed together make white .
The wretch !-- a new suit of clothes , blue coat and buff waistcoat .
" Look here ," said Tarlton , drawing something from his pocket wrapped in a blue handkerchief .
And as he was receiving Hardy ' s commission , Loveit saw the corner of the blue handkerchief hanging out of his pocket .
" No , he cannot impose upon me ; I have a proof he is little prepared for ," said Mr . Trueman , producing the blue handkerchief in which the meat had been wrapped .
Deep into distant woodlands winds a mazy way , reaching to overlapping spurs of mountains bathed in their hill - side blue .
Can he warm his blue hands by holding them up to the grand northern lights ?
But what most puzzled and confounded you was a long , limber , portentous , black mass of something hovering in the centre of the picture over three blue , dim , perpendicular lines floating in a nameless yeast .
With our shaggy jackets drawn about our shoulders , we now passed the Tomahawk from one to the other , till slowly there grew over us a blue hanging tester of smoke , illuminated by the flame of the new - lit lamp .
There was nothing so very particular , perhaps , about the appearance of the elderly man I saw ; he was brown and brawny , like most old seamen , and heavily rolled up in blue pilot - cloth , cut in the Quaker style ; only there was a fine and almost microscopic net - work of the minutest wrinkles interlacing round his eyes , which must have arisen from his continual sailings in many hard gales , and always looking to windward ;-- for this causes the muscles about the eyes to become pursed together .
" No ," said Peleg , " and he hasn ' t been baptized right either , or it would have washed some of that devil ' s blue off his face ."
If any of the following whales , shall hereafter be caught and marked , then he can readily be incorporated into this System , according to his Folio , Octavo , or Duodecimo magnitude :-- The Bottle - Nose Whale ; the Junk Whale ; the Pudding - Headed Whale ; the Cape Whale ; the Leading Whale ; the Cannon Whale ; the Scragg Whale ; the Coppered Whale ; the Elephant Whale ; the Iceberg Whale ; the Quog Whale ; the Blue Whale ; etc .
" Roll on , thou deep and dark blue ocean , roll !
Perhaps they were ; or perhaps there might have been shoals of them in the far horizon ; but lulled into such an opium - like listlessness of vacant , unconscious reverie is this absent - minded youth by the blending cadence of waves with thoughts , that at last he loses his identity ; takes the mystic ocean at his feet for the visible image of that deep , blue , bottomless soul , pervading mankind and nature ; and every strange , half - seen , gliding , beautiful thing that eludes him ; every dimly - discovered , uprising fin of some undiscernible form , seems to him the embodiment of those elusive thoughts that only people the soul by continually flitting through it .
The gold brow plumbs the blue .
The rest of his body was so streaked , and spotted , and marbled with the same shrouded hue , that , in the end , he had gained his distinctive appellation of the White Whale ; a name , indeed , literally justified by his vivid aspect , when seen gliding at high noon through a dark blue sea , leaving a milky - way wake of creamy foam , all spangled with golden gleamings .
And those sublimer towers , the White Mountains of New Hampshire , whence , in peculiar moods , comes that gigantic ghostliness over the soul at the bare mention of that name , while the thought of Virginia ' s Blue Ridge is full of a soft , dewy , distant dreaminess ?
First : The mariner , when drawing nigh the coasts of foreign lands , if by night he hear the roar of breakers , starts to vigilance , and feels just enough of trepidation to sharpen all his faculties ; but under precisely similar circumstances , let him be called from his hammock to view his ship sailing through a midnight sea of milky whiteness -- as if from encircling headlands shoals of combed white bears were swimming round him , then he feels a silent , superstitious dread ; the shrouded phantom of the whitened waters is horrible to him as a real ghost ; in vain the lead assures him he is still off soundings ; heart and helm they both go down ; he never rests till blue water is under him again .
The whales had irregularly settled bodily down into the blue , thus giving no distantly discernible token of the movement , though from his closer vicinity Ahab had observed it .
Likewise upon the extreme stern of the boat where it was also triangularly platformed level with the gunwale , Starbuck himself was seen coolly and adroitly balancing himself to the jerking tossings of his chip of a craft , and silently eyeing the vast blue eye of the sea .
These temporary apprehensions , so vague but so awful , derived a wondrous potency from the contrasting serenity of the weather , in which , beneath all its blue blandness , some thought there lurked a devilish charm , as for days and days we voyaged along , through seas so wearily , lonesomely mild , that all space , in repugnance to our vengeful errand , seemed vacating itself of life before our urn - like prow .
was the cry from captain , mates , and harpooneers , who , undeterred by fearful rumours , were all anxious to capture so famous and precious a fish ; while the dogged crew eyed askance , and with curses , the appalling beauty of the vast milky mass , that lit up by a horizontal spangling sun , shifted and glistened like a living opal in the blue morning sea .
whales , with dromedary humps , and very savage ; breakfasting on three or four sailor tarts , that is whaleboats full of mariners : their deformities floundering in seas of blood and blue paint .
As morning mowers , who side by side slowly and seethingly advance their scythes through the long wet grass of marshy meads ; even so these monsters swam , making a strange , grassy , cutting sound ; and leaving behind them endless swaths of blue upon the yellow sea .
But one transparent blue morning , when a stillness almost preternatural spread over the sea , however unattended with any stagnant calm ; when the long burnished sun - glade on the waters seemed a golden finger laid across them , enjoining some secrecy ; when the slippered waves whispered together as they softly ran on ; in this profound hush of the visible sphere a strange spectre was seen by Daggoo from the main - mast - head .
An instant before , Stubb had swiftly caught two additional turns with it round the loggerhead , whence , by reason of its increased rapid circlings , a hempen blue smoke now jetted up and mingled with the steady fumes from his pipe .
For now , as with blue lips and blood - shot eyes the exhausted savage at last climbs up the chains and stands all dripping and involuntarily trembling over the side ; the steward advances , and with a benevolent , consolatory glance hands him -- what ?
cried Daggoo , all at once , from his now quiet , swinging perch overhead ; and looking further off from the side , we saw an arm thrust upright from the blue waves ; a sight strange to see , as an arm thrust forth from the grass over a grave .
With a grating rush , the three lines flew round the loggerheads with such a force as to gouge deep grooves in them ; while so fearful were the harpooneers that this rapid sounding would soon exhaust the lines , that using all their dexterous might , they caught repeated smoking turns with the rope to hold on ; till at last -- owing to the perpendicular strain from the lead - lined chocks of the boats , whence the three ropes went straight down into the blue -- the gunwales of the bows were almost even with the water , while the three sterns tilted high in the air .
As the three boats lay there on that gently rolling sea , gazing down into its eternal blue noon ; and as not a single groan or cry of any sort , nay , not so much as a ripple or a bubble came up from its depths ; what landsman would have thought , that beneath all that silence and placidity , the utmost monster of the seas was writhing and wrenching in agony !
So , though in the clear air of day , suspended against a blue - veined neck , the pure - watered diamond drop will healthful glow ; yet , when the cunning jeweller would show you the diamond in its most impressive lustre , he lays it against a gloomy ground , and then lights it up , not by the sun , but by some unnatural gases .
Meantime Pip ' s blue , choked face plainly looked , Do , for God ' s sake !
It was a beautiful , bounteous , blue day ; the spangled sea calm and cool , and flatly stretching away , all round , to the horizon , like gold - beater ' s skin hammered out to the extremest .
As I sat there at my ease , cross - legged on the deck ; after the bitter exertion at the windlass ; under a blue tranquil sky ; the ship under indolent sail , and gliding so serenely along ; as I bathed my hands among those soft , gentle globules of infiltrated tissues , woven almost within the hour ; as they richly broke to my fingers , and discharged all their opulence , like fully ripe grapes their wine ; as I snuffed up that uncontaminated aroma ,-- literally and truly , like the smell of spring violets ; I declare to you , that for the time I lived as in a musky meadow ; I forgot all about our horrible oath ; in that inexpressible sperm , I washed my hands and my heart of it ; I almost began to credit the old Paracelsan superstition that sperm is of rare virtue in allaying the heat of anger ; while bathing in that bath , I felt divinely free from all ill - will , or petulance , or malice , of any sort whatsoever .
He was a darkly - tanned , burly , good - natured , fine - looking man , of sixty or thereabouts , dressed in a spacious roundabout , that hung round him in festoons of blue pilot - cloth ; and one empty arm of this jacket streamed behind him like the broidered arm of a hussar ' s surcoat .
His face was an exceedingly round but sober one ; he was dressed in a faded blue woollen frock or shirt , and patched trowsers ; and had thus far been dividing his attention between a marlingspike he held in one hand , and a pill - box held in the other , occasionally casting a critical glance at the ivory limbs of the two crippled captains .
He called one to him in the grey morning watch , when the day was just breaking , and taking his hand , said that while in Nantucket he had chanced to see certain little canoes of dark wood , like the rich war - wood of his native isle ; and upon inquiry , he had learned that all whalemen who died in Nantucket , were laid in those same dark canoes , and that the fancy of being so laid had much pleased him ; for it was not unlike the custom of his own race , who , after embalming a dead warrior , stretched him out in his canoe , and so left him to be floated away to the starry archipelagoes ; for not only do they believe that the stars are isles , but that far beyond all visible horizons , their own mild , uncontinented seas , interflow with the blue heavens ; and so form the white breakers of the milky way .
When gliding by the Bashee isles we emerged at last upon the great South Sea ; were it not for other things , I could have greeted my dear Pacific with uncounted thanks , for now the long supplication of my youth was answered ; that serene ocean rolled eastwards from me a thousand leagues of blue .
The long - drawn virgin vales ; the mild blue hill - sides ; as over these there steals the hush , the hum ; you almost swear that play - wearied children lie sleeping in these solitudes , in some glad May - time , when the flowers of the woods are plucked .
The parted mouth of Tashtego revealed his shark - white teeth , which strangely gleamed as if they too had been tipped by corpusants ; while lit up by the preternatural light , Queequeg ' s tattooing burned like Satanic blue flames on his body .
At sun - rise this man went from his hammock to his mast - head at the fore ; and whether it was that he was not yet half waked from his sleep ( for sailors sometimes go aloft in a transition state ), whether it was thus with the man , there is now no telling ; but , be that as it may , he had not been long at his perch , when a cry was heard -- a cry and a rushing -- and looking up , they saw a falling phantom in the air ; and looking down , a little tossed heap of white bubbles in the blue of the sea .
It was a clear steel - blue day .
Hither , and thither , on high , glided the snow - white wings of small , unspeckled birds ; these were the gentle thoughts of the feminine air ; but to and fro in the deeps , far down in the bottomless blue , rushed mighty leviathans , sword - fish , and sharks ; and these were the strong , troubled , murderous thinkings of the masculine sea .
I think , sir , they have some such mild blue days , even as this , in Nantucket ."
Before it , far out on the soft Turkish - rugged waters , went the glistening white shadow from his broad , milky forehead , a musical rippling playfully accompanying the shade ; and behind , the blue waters interchangeably flowed over into the moving valley of his steady wake ; and on either hand bright bubbles arose and danced by his side .
" An hour ," said Ahab , standing rooted in his boat ' s stern ; and he gazed beyond the whale ' s place , towards the dim blue spaces and wide wooing vacancies to leeward .
It was Moby Dick ' s open mouth and scrolled jaw ; his vast , shadowed bulk still half blending with the blue of the sea .
So suddenly seen in the blue plain of the sea , and relieved against the still bluer margin of the sky , the spray that he raised , for the moment , intolerably glittered and glared like a glacier ; and stood there gradually fading and fading away from its first sparkling intensity , to the dim mistiness of an advancing shower in a vale .
He gave the word ; and still gazing round him , was steadily lowered through the cloven blue air to the deck .
I seem to see but thy eyes grown wondrous blue .
why in the east Darkness ere day ' s mid - course , and morning - light More orient in yon western cloud , that draws O ' er the blue firmament a radiant white , And slow descends with something heavenly fraught ?
In cabin ' d ships at sea , The boundless blue on every side expanding , With whistling winds and music of the waves , the large imperious waves , Or some lone bark buoy ' d on the dense marine , Where joyous full of faith , spreading white sails , She cleaves the ether mid the sparkle and the foam of day , or under many a star at night , By sailors young and old haply will I , a reminiscence of the land , be read , In full rapport at last .
spread your white sails my little bark athwart the imperious waves , Chant on , sail on , bear o ' er the boundless blue from me to every sea , This song for mariners and all their ships .
13 The negro holds firmly the reins of his four horses , the block swags underneath on its tied - over chain , The negro that drives the long dray of the stone - yard , steady and tall he stands pois ' d on one leg on the string - piece , His blue shirt exposes his ample neck and breast and loosens over his hip - band , His glance is calm and commanding , he tosses the slouch of his hat away from his forehead , The sun falls on his crispy hair and mustache , falls on the black of his polish ' d and perfect limbs .
15 The pure contralto sings in the organ loft , The carpenter dresses his plank , the tongue of his foreplane whistles its wild ascending lisp , The married and unmarried children ride home to their Thanksgiving dinner , The pilot seizes the king - pin , he heaves down with a strong arm , The mate stands braced in the whale - boat , lance and harpoon are ready , The duck - shooter walks by silent and cautious stretches , The deacons are ordain ' d with cross ' d hands at the altar , The spinning - girl retreats and advances to the hum of the big wheel , The farmer stops by the bars as he walks on a First - day loafe and looks at the oats and rye , The lunatic is carried at last to the asylum a confirm ' d case , ( He will never sleep any more as he did in the cot in his mother ' s bed - room ;) The jour printer with gray head and gaunt jaws works at his case , He turns his quid of tobacco while his eyes blurr with the manuscript ; The malform ' d limbs are tied to the surgeon ' s table , What is removed drops horribly in a pail ; The quadroon girl is sold at the auction - stand , the drunkard nods by the bar - room stove , The machinist rolls up his sleeves , the policeman travels his beat , the gate - keeper marks who pass , The young fellow drives the express - wagon , ( I love him , though I do not know him ;) The half - breed straps on his light boots to compete in the race , The western turkey - shooting draws old and young , some lean on their rifles , some sit on logs , Out from the crowd steps the marksman , takes his position , levels his piece ; The groups of newly - come immigrants cover the wharf or levee , As the woolly - pates hoe in the sugar - field , the overseer views them from his saddle , The bugle calls in the ball - room , the gentlemen run for their partners , the dancers bow to each other , The youth lies awake in the cedar - roof ' d garret and harks to the musical rain , The Wolverine sets traps on the creek that helps fill the Huron , The squaw wrapt in her yellow - hemm ' d cloth is offering moccasins and bead - bags for sale , The connoisseur peers along the exhibition - gallery with half - shut eyes bent sideways , As the deck - hands make fast the steamboat the plank is thrown for the shore - going passengers , The young sister holds out the skein while the elder sister winds it off in a ball , and stops now and then for the knots , The one - year wife is recovering and happy having a week ago borne her first child , The clean - hair ' d Yankee girl works with her sewing - machine or in the factory or mill , The paving - man leans on his two - handed rammer , the reporter ' s lead flies swiftly over the note - book , the sign - painter is lettering with blue and gold , The canal boy trots on the tow - path , the book - keeper counts at his desk , the shoemaker waxes his thread , The conductor beats time for the band and all the performers follow him , The child is baptized , the convert is making his first professions , The regatta is spread on the bay , the race is begun , ( how the white sails sparkle !)
Earth of the vitreous pour of the full moon just tinged with blue !
By the city ' s quadrangular houses -- in log huts , camping with lumber - men , Along the ruts of the turnpike , along the dry gulch and rivulet bed , Weeding my onion - patch or hosing rows of carrots and parsnips , crossing savannas , trailing in forests , Prospecting , gold - digging , girdling the trees of a new purchase , Scorch ' d ankle - deep by the hot sand , hauling my boat down the shallow river , Where the panther walks to and fro on a limb overhead , where the buck turns furiously at the hunter , Where the rattlesnake suns his flabby length on a rock , where the otter is feeding on fish , Where the alligator in his tough pimples sleeps by the bayou , Where the black bear is searching for roots or honey , where the beaver pats the mud with his paddle - shaped tall ; Over the growing sugar , over the yellow - flower ' d cotton plant , over the rice in its low moist field , Over the sharp - peak ' d farm house , with its scallop ' d scum and slender shoots from the gutters , Over the western persimmon , over the long - leav ' d corn , over the delicate blue - flower flax , Over the white and brown buckwheat , a hummer and buzzer there with the rest , Over the dusky green of the rye as it ripples and shades in the breeze ; Scaling mountains , pulling myself cautiously up , holding on by low scragged limbs , Walking the path worn in the grass and beat through the leaves of the brush , Where the quail is whistling betwixt the woods and the wheat - lot , Where the bat flies in the Seventh - month eve , where the great goldbug drops through the dark , Where the brook puts out of the roots of the old tree and flows to the meadow , Where cattle stand and shake away flies with the tremulous shuddering of their hides , Where the cheese - cloth hangs in the kitchen , where andirons straddle the hearth - slab , where cobwebs fall in festoons from the rafters ; Where trip - hammers crash , where the press is whirling its cylinders , Wherever the human heart beats with terrible throes under its ribs , Where the pear - shaped balloon is floating aloft , ( floating in it myself and looking composedly down ,) Where the life - car is drawn on the slip - noose , where the heat hatches pale - green eggs in the dented sand , Where the she - whale swims with her calf and never forsakes it , Where the steam - ship trails hind - ways its long pennant of smoke , Where the fin of the shark cuts like a black chip out of the water , Where the half - burn ' d brig is riding on unknown currents , Where shells grow to her slimy deck , where the dead are corrupting below ; Where the dense - starr ' d flag is borne at the head of the regiments , Approaching Manhattan up by the long - stretching island , Under Niagara , the cataract falling like a veil over my countenance , Upon a door - step , upon the horse - block of hard wood outside , Upon the race - course , or enjoying picnics or jigs or a good game of base - ball , At he - festivals , with blackguard gibes , ironical license , bull - dances , drinking , laughter , At the cider - mill tasting the sweets of the brown mash , sucking the juice through a straw , At apple - peelings wanting kisses for all the red fruit I find , At musters , beach - parties , friendly bees , huskings , house - raisings ; Where the mocking - bird sounds his delicious gurgles , cackles , screams , weeps , Where the hay - rick stands in the barn - yard , where the dry - stalks are scatter ' d , where the brood - cow waits in the hovel , Where the bull advances to do his masculine work , where the stud to the mare , where the cock is treading the hen , Where the heifers browse , where geese nip their food with short jerks , Where sun - down shadows lengthen over the limitless and lonesome prairie , Where herds of buffalo make a crawling spread of the square miles far and near , Where the humming - bird shimmers , where the neck of the long - lived swan is curving and winding , Where the laughing - gull scoots by the shore , where she laughs her near - human laugh , Where bee - hives range on a gray bench in the garden half hid by the high weeds , Where band - neck ' d partridges roost in a ring on the ground with their heads out , Where burial coaches enter the arch ' d gates of a cemetery , Where winter wolves bark amid wastes of snow and icicled trees , Where the yellow - crown ' d heron comes to the edge of the marsh at night and feeds upon small crabs , Where the splash of swimmers and divers cools the warm noon , Where the katy - did works her chromatic reed on the walnut - tree over the well , Through patches of citrons and cucumbers with silver - wired leaves , Through the salt - lick or orange glade , or under conical firs , Through the gymnasium , through the curtain ' d saloon , through the office or public hall ; Pleas ' d with the native and pleas ' d with the foreign , pleas ' d with the new and old , Pleas ' d with the homely woman as well as the handsome , Pleas ' d with the quakeress as she puts off her bonnet and talks melodiously , Pleas ' d with the tune of the choir of the whitewash ' d church , Pleas ' d with the earnest words of the sweating Methodist preacher , impress ' d seriously at the camp - meeting ; Looking in at the shop - windows of Broadway the whole forenoon , flatting the flesh of my nose on the thick plate glass , Wandering the same afternoon with my face turn ' d up to the clouds , or down a lane or along the beach , My right and left arms round the sides of two friends , and I in the middle ; Coming home with the silent and dark - cheek ' d bush - boy , ( behind me he rides at the drape of the day ,) Far from the settlements studying the print of animals ' feet , or the moccasin print , By the cot in the hospital reaching lemonade to a feverish patient , Nigh the coffin ' d corpse when all is still , examining with a candle ; Voyaging to every port to dicker and adventure , Hurrying with the modern crowd as eager and fickle as any , Hot toward one I hate , ready in my madness to knife him , Solitary at midnight in my back yard , my thoughts gone from me a long while , Walking the old hills of Judaea with the beautiful gentle God by my side , Speeding through space , speeding through heaven and the stars , Speeding amid the seven satellites and the broad ring , and the diameter of eighty thousand miles , Speeding with tail ' d meteors , throwing fire - balls like the rest , Carrying the crescent child that carries its own full mother in its belly , Storming , enjoying , planning , loving , cautioning , Backing and filling , appearing and disappearing , I tread day and night such roads .
I go hunting polar furs and the seal , leaping chasms with a pike - pointed staff , clinging to topples of brittle and blue .
my blue veins leaving !
I see Christ eating the bread of his last supper in the midst of youths and old persons , I see where the strong divine young man the Hercules toil ' d faithfully and long and then died , I see the place of the innocent rich life and hapless fate of the beautiful nocturnal son , the full - limb ' d Bacchus , I see Kneph , blooming , drest in blue , with the crown of feathers on his head , I see Hermes , unsuspected , dying , well - belov ' d , saying to the people Do not weep for me , This is not my true country , I have lived banish ' d from my true country , I now go back there , I return to the celestial sphere where every one goes in his turn .
Always Florida ' s green peninsula -- always the priceless delta of Louisiana -- always the cotton - fields of Alabama and Texas , Always California ' s golden hills and hollows , and the silver mountains of New Mexico -- always soft - breath ' d Cuba , Always the vast slope drain ' d by the Southern sea , inseparable with the slopes drain ' d by the Eastern and Western seas , The area the eighty - third year of these States , the three and a half millions of square miles , The eighteen thousand miles of sea - coast and bay - coast on the main , the thirty thousand miles of river navigation , The seven millions of distinct families and the same number of dwellings -- always these , and more , branching forth into numberless branches , Always the free range and diversity -- always the continent of Democracy ; Always the prairies , pastures , forests , vast cities , travelers , Kanada , the snows ; Always these compact lands tied at the hips with the belt stringing the huge oval lakes ; Always the West with strong native persons , the increasing density there , the habitans , friendly , threatening , ironical , scorning invaders ; All sights , South , North , East -- all deeds , promiscuously done at all times , All characters , movements , growths , a few noticed , myriads unnoticed , Through Mannahatta ' s streets I walking , these things gathering , On interior rivers by night in the glare of pine knots , steamboats wooding up , Sunlight by day on the valley of the Susquehanna , and on the valleys of the Potomac and Rappahannock , and the valleys of the Roanoke and Delaware , In their northerly wilds beasts of prey haunting the Adirondacks the hills , or lapping the Saginaw waters to drink , In a lonesome inlet a sheldrake lost from the flock , sitting on the water rocking silently , In farmers ' barns oxen in the stable , their harvest labor done , they rest standing , they are too tired , Afar on arctic ice the she - walrus lying drowsily while her cubs play around , The hawk sailing where men have not yet sail ' d , the farthest polar sea , ripply , crystalline , open , beyond the floes , White drift spooning ahead where the ship in the tempest dashes , On solid land what is done in cities as the bells strike midnight together , In primitive woods the sounds there also sounding , the howl of the wolf , the scream of the panther , and the hoarse bellow of the elk , In winter beneath the hard blue ice of Moosehead lake , in summer visible through the clear waters , the great trout swimming , In lower latitudes in warmer air in the Carolinas the large black buzzard floating slowly high beyond the tree tops , Below , the red cedar festoon ' d with tylandria , the pines and cypresses growing out of the white sand that spreads far and flat , Rude boats descending the big Pedee , climbing plants , parasites with color ' d flowers and berries enveloping huge trees , The waving drapery on the live - oak trailing long and low , noiselessly waved by the wind , The camp of Georgia wagoners just after dark , the supper - fires and the cooking and eating by whites and negroes , Thirty or forty great wagons , the mules , cattle , horses , feeding from troughs , The shadows , gleams , up under the leaves of the old sycamore - trees , the flames with the black smoke from the pitch - pine curling and rising ; Southern fishermen fishing , the sounds and inlets of North Carolina ' s coast , the shad - fishery and the herring - fishery , the large sweep - seines , the windlasses on shore work ' d by horses , the clearing , curing , and packing - houses ; Deep in the forest in piney woods turpentine dropping from the incisions in the trees , there are the turpentine works , There are the negroes at work in good health , the ground in all directions is cover ' d with pine straw ; In Tennessee and Kentucky slaves busy in the coalings , at the forge , by the furnace - blaze , or at the corn - shucking , In Virginia , the planter ' s son returning after a long absence , joyfully welcom ' d and kiss ' d by the aged mulatto nurse , On rivers boatmen safely moor ' d at nightfall in their boats under shelter of high banks , Some of the younger men dance to the sound of the banjo or fiddle , others sit on the gunwale smoking and talking ; Late in the afternoon the mocking - bird , the American mimic , singing in the Great Dismal Swamp , There are the greenish waters , the resinous odor , the plenteous moss , the cypress - tree , and the juniper - tree ; Northward , young men of Mannahatta , the target company from an excursion returning home at evening , the musket - muzzles all bear bunches of flowers presented by women ; Children at play , or on his father ' s lap a young boy fallen asleep , ( how his lips move !
Another time mackerel - taking , Voracious , mad for the hook , near the surface , they seem to fill the water for miles ; Another time fishing for rock - fish in Chesapeake bay , I one of the brown - faced crew ; Another time trailing for blue - fish off Paumanok , I stand with braced body , My left foot is on the gunwale , my right arm throws far out the coils of slender rope , In sight around me the quick veering and darting of fifty skiffs , my companions .
1 Weapon shapely , naked , wan , Head from the mother ' s bowels drawn , Wooded flesh and metal bone , limb only one and lip only one , Gray - blue leaf by red - heat grown , helve produced from a little seed sown , Resting the grass amid and upon , To be lean ' d and to lean on .
3 The log at the wood - pile , the axe supported by it , The sylvan hut , the vine over the doorway , the space clear ' d for garden , The irregular tapping of rain down on the leaves after the storm is lull ' d , The walling and moaning at intervals , the thought of the sea , The thought of ships struck in the storm and put on their beam ends , and the cutting away of masts , The sentiment of the huge timbers of old - fashion ' d houses and barns , The remember ' d print or narrative , the voyage at a venture of men , families , goods , The disembarkation , the founding of a new city , The voyage of those who sought a New England and found it , the outset anywhere , The settlements of the Arkansas , Colorado , Ottawa , Willamette , The slow progress , the scant fare , the axe , rifle , saddle - bags ; The beauty of all adventurous and daring persons , The beauty of wood - boys and wood - men with their clear untrimm ' d faces , The beauty of independence , departure , actions that rely on themselves , The American contempt for statutes and ceremonies , the boundless impatience of restraint , The loose drift of character , the inkling through random types , the solidification ; The butcher in the slaughter - house , the hands aboard schooners and sloops , the raftsman , the pioneer , Lumbermen in their winter camp , daybreak in the woods , stripes of snow on the limbs of trees , the occasional snapping , The glad clear sound of one ' s own voice , the merry song , the natural life of the woods , the strong day ' s work , The blazing fire at night , the sweet taste of supper , the talk , the bed of hemlock - boughs and the bear - skin ; The house - builder at work in cities or anywhere , The preparatory jointing , squaring , sawing , mortising , The hoist - up of beams , the push of them in their places , laying them regular , Setting the studs by their tenons in the mortises according as they were prepared , The blows of mallets and hammers , the attitudes of the men , their curv ' d limbs , Bending , standing , astride the beams , driving in pins , holding on by posts and braces , The hook ' d arm over the plate , the other arm wielding the axe , The floor - men forcing the planks close to be nail ' d , Their postures bringing their weapons downward on the bearers , The echoes resounding through the vacant building : The huge storehouse carried up in the city well under way , The six framing - men , two in the middle and two at each end , carefully bearing on their shoulders a heavy stick for a cross - beam , The crowded line of masons with trowels in their right hands rapidly laying the long side - wall , two hundred feet from front to rear , The flexible rise and fall of backs , the continual click of the trowels striking the bricks , The bricks one after another each laid so workmanlike in its place , and set with a knock of the trowel - handle , The piles of materials , the mortar on the mortar - boards , and the steady replenishing by the hod - men ; Spar - makers in the spar - yard , the swarming row of well - grown apprentices , The swing of their axes on the square - hew ' d log shaping it toward the shape of a mast , The brisk short crackle of the steel driven slantingly into the pine , The butter - color ' d chips flying off in great flakes and slivers , The limber motion of brawny young arms and hips in easy costumes , The constructor of wharves , bridges , piers , bulk - heads , floats , stays against the sea ; The city fireman , the fire that suddenly bursts forth in the close - pack ' d square , The arriving engines , the hoarse shouts , the nimble stepping and daring , The strong command through the fire - trumpets , the falling in line , the rise and fall of the arms forcing the water , The slender , spasmic , blue - white jets , the bringing to bear of the hooks and ladders and their execution , The crash and cut away of connecting wood - work , or through floors if the fire smoulders under them , The crowd with their lit faces watching , the glare and dense shadows ; The forger at his forge - furnace and the user of iron after him , The maker of the axe large and small , and the welder and temperer , The chooser breathing his breath on the cold steel and trying the edge with his thumb , The one who clean - shapes the handle and sets it firmly in the socket ; The shadowy processions of the portraits of the past users also , The primal patient mechanics , the architects and engineers , The far - off Assyrian edifice and Mizra edifice , The Roman lictors preceding the consuls , The antique European warrior with his axe in combat , The uplifted arm , the clatter of blows on the helmeted head , The death - howl , the limpsy tumbling body , the rush of friend and foe thither , The siege of revolted lieges determin ' d for liberty , The summons to surrender , the battering at castle gates , the truce and parley , The sack of an old city in its time , The bursting in of mercenaries and bigots tumultuously and disorderly , Roar , flames , blood , drunkenness , madness , Goods freely rifled from houses and temples , screams of women in the gripe of brigands , Craft and thievery of camp - followers , men running , old persons despairing , The hell of war , the cruelties of creeds , The list of all executive deeds and words just or unjust , The power of personality just or unjust .
Behold , the sea itself , And on its limitless , heaving breast , the ships ; See , where their white sails , bellying in the wind , speckle the green and blue , See , the steamers coming and going , steaming in or out of port , See , dusky and undulating , the long pennants of smoke .
Or the brown land and the blue sea for maps and charts ?
above it thou ascended ' st , And rested on the sky , thy slave that cradled thee ,) Now a blue point , far , far in heaven floating , As to the light emerging here on deck I watch thee , ( Myself a speck , a point on the world ' s floating vast .)
Arm ' d year -- year of the struggle , No dainty rhymes or sentimental love verses for you terrible year , Not you as some pale poetling seated at a desk lisping cadenzas piano , But as a strong man erect , clothed in blue clothes , advancing , carrying rifle on your shoulder , With well - gristled body and sunburnt face and hands , with a knife in the belt at your side , As I heard you shouting loud , your sonorous voice ringing across the continent , Your masculine voice O year , as rising amid the great cities , Amid the men of Manhattan I saw you as one of the workmen , the dwellers in Manhattan , Or with large steps crossing the prairies out of Illinois and Indiana , Rapidly crossing the West with springy gait and descending the Allghanies , Or down from the great lakes or in Pennsylvania , or on deck along the Ohio river , Or southward along the Tennessee or Cumberland rivers , or at Chattanooga on the mountain top , Saw I your gait and saw I your sinewy limbs clothed in blue , bearing weapons , robust year , Heard your determin ' d voice launch ' d forth again and again , Year that suddenly sang by the mouths of the round - lipp ' d cannon , I repeat you , hurrying , crashing , sad , distracted year .
Poet : Fresh and rosy red the sun is mounting high , On floats the sea in distant blue careering through its channels , On floats the wind over the breast of the sea setting in toward land , The great steady wind from west or west - by - south , Floating so buoyant with milk - white foam on the waters .
my little and lengthen ' d pennant shaped like a sword , Runs swiftly up indicating war and defiance -- and now the halyards have rais ' d it , Side of my banner broad and blue , side of my starry banner , Discarding peace over all the sea and land .
The noble son on sinewy feet advancing , I saw , out of the land of prairies , land of Ohio ' s waters and of Indiana , To the rescue the stalwart giant hurry his plenteous offspring , Drest in blue , bearing their trusty rifles on their shoulders .
A line in long array where they wind betwixt green islands , They take a serpentine course , their arms flash in the sun -- hark to the musical clank , Behold the silvery river , in it the splashing horses loitering stop to drink , Behold the brown - faced men , each group , each person a picture , the negligent rest on the saddles , Some emerge on the opposite bank , others are just entering the ford -- while , Scarlet and blue and snowy white , The guidon flags flutter gayly in the wind .
I dress a wound in the side , deep , deep , But a day or two more , for see the frame all wasted and sinking , And the yellow - blue countenance see .
} By Blue Ontario ' s Shore
By blue Ontario ' s shore , As I mused of these warlike days and of peace return ' d , and the dead that return no more , A Phantom gigantic superb , with stern visage accosted me , Chant me the poem , it said , that comes from the soul of America , chant me the carol of victory , And strike up the marches of Libertad , marches more powerful yet , And sing me before you go the song of the throes of Democracy .
19 Thus by blue Ontario ' s shore , While the winds fann ' d me and the waves came trooping toward me , I thrill ' d with the power ' s pulsations , and the charm of my theme was upon me , Till the tissues that held me parted their ties upon me .
Melt , melt away ye armies -- disperse ye blue - clad soldiers , Resolve ye back again , give up for good your deadly arms , Other the arms the fields henceforth for you , or South or North , With saner wars , sweet wars , life - giving wars .
Warble me now for joy of lilac - time , ( returning in reminiscence ,) Sort me O tongue and lips for Nature ' s sake , souvenirs of earliest summer , Gather the welcome signs , ( as children with pebbles or stringing shells ,) Put in April and May , the hylas croaking in the ponds , the elastic air , Bees , butterflies , the sparrow with its simple notes , Blue - bird and darting swallow , nor forget the high - hole flashing his golden wings , The tranquil sunny haze , the clinging smoke , the vapor , Shimmer of waters with fish in them , the cerulean above , All that is jocund and sparkling , the brooks running , The maple woods , the crisp February days and the sugar - making , The robin where he hops , bright - eyed , brown - breasted , With musical clear call at sunrise , and again at sunset , Or flitting among the trees of the apple - orchard , building the nest of his mate , The melted snow of March , the willow sending forth its yellow - green sprouts , For spring - time is here !
To glide with thee O soul , o ' er all , in all , as a ship o ' er the waters ; Gathering these hints , the preludes , the blue sky , the grass , the morning drops of dew , The lilac - scent , the bushes with dark green heart - shaped leaves , Wood - violets , the little delicate pale blossoms called innocence , Samples and sorts not for themselves alone , but for their atmosphere , To grace the bush I love -- to sing with the birds , A warble for joy of returning in reminiscence .
The conceits of the poets of other lands I ' d bring thee not , Nor the compliments that have served their turn so long , Nor rhyme , nor the classics , nor perfume of foreign court or indoor library ; But an odor I ' d bring as from forests of pine in Maine , or breath of an Illinois prairie , With open airs of Virginia or Georgia or Tennessee , or from Texas uplands , or Florida ' s glades , Or the Saguenay ' s black stream , or the wide blue spread of Huron , With presentment of Yellowstone ' s scenes , or Yosemite , And murmuring under , pervading all , I ' d bring the rustling sea - sound , That endlessly sounds from the two Great Seas of the world .
Flooding with sheeny light the gray beach sand , The sibilant near sea with vistas far and foam , And tawny streaks and shades and spreading blue ; O sun of noon refulgent !
I saw the rich ladies in full dress at the soiree , I heard what the singers were singing so long , Heard who sprang in crimson youth from the white froth and the water - blue .
Again old heart so gay , again to you , your sense , the full flush spring returning , Again the freshness and the odors , again Virginia ' s summer sky , pellucid blue and silver , Again the forenoon purple of the hills , Again the deathless grass , so noiseless soft and green , Again the blood - red roses blooming .
Somehow I cannot let it go yet , funeral though it is , Let it remain back there on its nail suspended , With pink , blue , yellow , all blanch ' d , and the white now gray and ashy , One wither ' d rose put years ago for thee , dear friend ; But I do not forget thee .
