Mrs . Martin had told her one day ( and there was a blush as she said it ,) that it was impossible for any body to be a better son , and therefore she was sure , whenever he married , he would make a good husband .
You blush , Harriet .-- Does any body else occur to you at this moment under such a definition ?
This , Harriet , is an alliance which can never raise a blush in either of us ."
She stopt to blush and laugh at her own relapse , and then resumed a more serious , more dispiriting cogitation upon what had been , and might be , and must be .
Emma had not had time even to think of Mr . Elton , and she was so completely surprized that she could not avoid a little start , and a little blush , at the sound .
She did not wish to speak of the pianoforte , she felt too much in the secret herself , to think the appearance of curiosity or interest fair , and therefore purposely kept at a distance ; but by the others , the subject was almost immediately introduced , and she saw the blush of consciousness with which congratulations were received , the blush of guilt which accompanied the name of " my excellent friend Colonel Campbell ."
Emma wished he would be less pointed , yet could not help being amused ; and when on glancing her eye towards Jane Fairfax she caught the remains of a smile , when she saw that with all the deep blush of consciousness , there had been a smile of secret delight , she had less scruple in the amusement , and much less compunction with respect to her .-- This amiable , upright , perfect Jane Fairfax was apparently cherishing very reprehensible feelings .
But still she had inclination enough for shewing people again how delightfully Mr . Frank Churchill and Miss Woodhouse danced -- for doing that in which she need not blush to compare herself with Jane Fairfax -- and even for simple dancing itself , without any of the wicked aids of vanity -- to assist him first in pacing out the room they were in to see what it could be made to hold -- and then in taking the dimensions of the other parlour , in the hope of discovering , in spite of all that Mr . Weston could say of their exactly equal size , that it was a little the largest .
` Full many a flower is born to blush unseen , ` And waste its fragrance on the desert air .'
With a faint blush , she presently replied ,
There was a little blush , and then this answer ,
A pleasant " thank you " seemed meant to laugh it off , but a blush , a quivering lip , a tear in the eye , shewed that it was felt beyond a laugh .
my sins , my sins !-- And I had plenty all the while in my pocket !-- One of my senseless tricks !-- I deserve to be under a continual blush all the rest of my life .-- Well --( sitting down again )-- go on -- what else ?"
The word was _blunder_ ; and as Harriet exultingly proclaimed it , there was a blush on Jane ' s cheek which gave it a meaning not otherwise ostensible .
She had given them neither men , nor names , nor places , that could raise a blush .
Miss Bates , deceived by the mock ceremony of her manner , did not immediately catch her meaning ; but , when it burst on her , it could not anger , though a slight blush shewed that it could pain her .
Emma could not speak the name of Dixon without a little blush .
Circumstances that might swell to half an hour ' s relation , and contained multiplied proofs to her who had seen them , had passed undiscerned by her who now heard them ; but the two latest occurrences to be mentioned , the two of strongest promise to Harriet , were not without some degree of witness from Emma herself .-- The first , was his walking with her apart from the others , in the lime - walk at Donwell , where they had been walking some time before Emma came , and he had taken pains ( as she was convinced ) to draw her from the rest to himself -- and at first , he had talked to her in a more particular way than he had ever done before , in a very particular way indeed !--( Harriet could not recall it without a blush .)
She then began to speak of you , and of the great kindness you had shewn her during her illness ; and with a blush which shewed me how it was all connected , desired me , whenever I had an opportunity , to thank you -- I could not thank you too much -- for every wish and every endeavour to do her good .
Emma agreed to it , and with a blush of sensibility on Harriet ' s account , which she could not give any sincere explanation of .
cried Jane , with a blush and an hesitation which Emma thought infinitely more becoming to her than all the elegance of all her usual composure --" there would have been no danger .
I have travelled so little , that every fresh place would be interesting to me ; but there is real beauty at Lyme ; and in short " ( with a faint blush at some recollections ), " altogether my impressions of the place are very agreeable ."
A blush overspread Anne ' s cheeks .
She stopped , regretting with a deep blush that she had implied so much ; but less would hardly have been sufficient .
She cared not for Mrs Clay , and had nothing to blush for in the public manners of her father and sister .
She was full of jokes and laughter , and before dinner was over had said many witty things on the subject of lovers and husbands ; hoped they had not left their hearts behind them in Sussex , and pretended to see them blush whether they did or not .
9 : 5 And at the evening sacrifice I arose up from my heaviness ; and having rent my garment and my mantle , I fell upon my knees , and spread out my hands unto the LORD my God , 9 : 6 And said , O my God , I am ashamed and blush to lift up my face to thee , my God : for our iniquities are increased over our head , and our trespass is grown up unto the heavens .
nay , they were not at all ashamed , neither could they blush : therefore they shall fall among them that fall : at the time that I visit them they shall be cast down , saith the LORD .
nay , they were not at all ashamed , neither could they blush : therefore shall they fall among them that fall : in the time of their visitation they shall be cast down , saith the LORD .
Ever since the first pink blush of dawn , the modest Dewdrop had gazed fixedly down upon the rich gem , but feared to address a person of such exalted consequence .
" I fancy you forgot that we promised to pay you a visit this evening , but you need not blush so much about the matter ; there is no great harm done ; we have only been here about five minutes ; and we have been well employed in admiring your neat garden , and your orderly shelves .
" Oh ," interrupted Susan , with a smile and a blush ; " these are all pretty , and too good for me , but --"
Yonder , by ever - brimming goblet ' s rim , the warm waves blush like wine .
So spake , so wished much humbled Eve ; but Fate Subscribed not : Nature first gave signs , impressed On bird , beast , air ; air suddenly eclipsed , After short blush of morn ; nigh in her sight The bird of Jove , stooped from his aery tour , Two birds of gayest plume before him drove ; Down from a hill the beast that reigns in woods , First hunter then , pursued a gentle brace , Goodliest of all the forest , hart and hind ; Direct to the eastern gate was bent their flight .
Such an Act That blurres the grace and blush of Modestie , Cals Vertue Hypocrite , takes off the Rose From the faire forehead of an innocent loue , And makes a blister there .
where is thy Blush ?
Nor is it you alone who know what it is to be evil , I am he who knew what it was to be evil , I too knitted the old knot of contrariety , Blabb ' d , blush ' d , resented , lied , stole , grudg ' d , Had guile , anger , lust , hot wishes I dared not speak , Was wayward , vain , greedy , shallow , sly , cowardly , malignant , The wolf , the snake , the hog , not wanting in me .
I see the vast alembic ever working , I see and know the flames that heat the world , The glow , the blush , the beating hearts of lovers , So blissful happy some , and some so silent , dark , and nigh to death ; Love , that is all the earth to lovers -- love , that mocks time and space , Love , that is day and night -- love , that is sun and moon and stars , Love , that is crimson , sumptuous , sick with perfume , No other words but words of love , no other thought but love .
