4 : 22 And Zillah , she also bare Tubalcain , an instructer of every artificer in brass and iron : and the sister of Tubalcain was Naamah .
25 : 3 And this is the offering which ye shall take of them ; gold , and silver , and brass , 25 : 4 And blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine linen , and goats ' hair , 25 : 5 And rams ' skins dyed red , and badgers ' skins , and shittim wood , 25 : 6 Oil for the light , spices for anointing oil , and for sweet incense , 25 : 7 Onyx stones , and stones to be set in the ephod , and in the breastplate .
26 : 11 And thou shalt make fifty taches of brass , and put the taches into the loops , and couple the tent together , that it may be one .
26 : 37 And thou shalt make for the hanging five pillars of shittim wood , and overlay them with gold , and their hooks shall be of gold : and thou shalt cast five sockets of brass for them .
27 : 2 And thou shalt make the horns of it upon the four corners thereof : his horns shall be of the same : and thou shalt overlay it with brass .
27 : 3 And thou shalt make his pans to receive his ashes , and his shovels , and his basons , and his fleshhooks , and his firepans : all the vessels thereof thou shalt make of brass .
27 : 4 And thou shalt make for it a grate of network of brass ; and upon the net shalt thou make four brasen rings in the four corners thereof .
27 : 6 And thou shalt make staves for the altar , staves of shittim wood , and overlay them with brass .
27 : 9 And thou shalt make the court of the tabernacle : for the south side southward there shall be hangings for the court of fine twined linen of an hundred cubits long for one side : 27 : 10 And the twenty pillars thereof and their twenty sockets shall be of brass ; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets shall be of silver .
27 : 11 And likewise for the north side in length there shall be hangings of an hundred cubits long , and his twenty pillars and their twenty sockets of brass ; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets of silver .
27 : 17 All the pillars round about the court shall be filleted with silver ; their hooks shall be of silver , and their sockets of brass .
27 : 18 The length of the court shall be an hundred cubits , and the breadth fifty every where , and the height five cubits of fine twined linen , and their sockets of brass .
27 : 19 All the vessels of the tabernacle in all the service thereof , and all the pins thereof , and all the pins of the court , shall be of brass .
30 : 17 And the LORD spake unto Moses , saying , 30 : 18 Thou shalt also make a laver of brass , and his foot also of brass , to wash withal : and thou shalt put it between the tabernacle of the congregation and the altar , and thou shalt put water therein .
31 : 1 And the LORD spake unto Moses , saying , 31 : 2 See , I have called by name Bezaleel the son of Uri , the son of Hur , of the tribe of Judah : 31 : 3 And I have filled him with the spirit of God , in wisdom , and in understanding , and in knowledge , and in all manner of workmanship , 31 : 4 To devise cunning works , to work in gold , and in silver , and in brass , 31 : 5 And in cutting of stones , to set them , and in carving of timber , to work in all manner of workmanship .
35 : 4 And Moses spake unto all the congregation of the children of Israel , saying , This is the thing which the LORD commanded , saying , 35 : 5 Take ye from among you an offering unto the LORD : whosoever is of a willing heart , let him bring it , an offering of the LORD ; gold , and silver , and brass , 35 : 6 And blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine linen , and goats ' hair , 35 : 7 And rams ' skins dyed red , and badgers ' skins , and shittim wood , 35 : 8 And oil for the light , and spices for anointing oil , and for the sweet incense , 35 : 9 And onyx stones , and stones to be set for the ephod , and for the breastplate .
35 : 24 Every one that did offer an offering of silver and brass brought the LORD ' s offering : and every man , with whom was found shittim wood for any work of the service , brought it .
35 : 30 And Moses said unto the children of Israel , See , the LORD hath called by name Bezaleel the son of Uri , the son of Hur , of the tribe of Judah ; 35 : 31 And he hath filled him with the spirit of God , in wisdom , in understanding , and in knowledge , and in all manner of workmanship ; 35 : 32 And to devise curious works , to work in gold , and in silver , and in brass , 35 : 33 And in the cutting of stones , to set them , and in carving of wood , to make any manner of cunning work .
36 : 18 And he made fifty taches of brass to couple the tent together , that it might be one .
36 : 37 And he made an hanging for the tabernacle door of blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine twined linen , of needlework ; 36 : 38 And the five pillars of it with their hooks : and he overlaid their chapiters and their fillets with gold : but their five sockets were of brass .
38 : 2 And he made the horns thereof on the four corners of it ; the horns thereof were of the same : and he overlaid it with brass .
38 : 3 And he made all the vessels of the altar , the pots , and the shovels , and the basons , and the fleshhooks , and the firepans : all the vessels thereof made he of brass .
38 : 5 And he cast four rings for the four ends of the grate of brass , to be places for the staves .
38 : 6 And he made the staves of shittim wood , and overlaid them with brass .
38 : 8 And he made the laver of brass , and the foot of it of brass , of the lookingglasses of the women assembling , which assembled at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation .
38 : 11 And for the north side the hangings were an hundred cubits , their pillars were twenty , and their sockets of brass twenty ; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets of silver .
38 : 17 And the sockets for the pillars were of brass ; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets of silver ; and the overlaying of their chapiters of silver ; and all the pillars of the court were filleted with silver .
38 : 19 And their pillars were four , and their sockets of brass four ; their hooks of silver , and the overlaying of their chapiters and their fillets of silver .
38 : 20 And all the pins of the tabernacle , and of the court round about , were of brass .
38 : 29 And the brass of the offering was seventy talents , and two thousand and four hundred shekels .
39 : 33 And they brought the tabernacle unto Moses , the tent , and all his furniture , his taches , his boards , his bars , and his pillars , and his sockets , 39 : 34 And the covering of rams ' skins dyed red , and the covering of badgers ' skins , and the vail of the covering , 39 : 35 The ark of the testimony , and the staves thereof , and the mercy seat , 39 : 36 The table , and all the vessels thereof , and the shewbread , 39 : 37 The pure candlestick , with the lamps thereof , even with the lamps to be set in order , and all the vessels thereof , and the oil for light , 39 : 38 And the golden altar , and the anointing oil , and the sweet incense , and the hanging for the tabernacle door , 39 : 39 The brasen altar , and his grate of brass , his staves , and all his vessels , the laver and his foot , 39 : 40 The hangings of the court , his pillars , and his sockets , and the hanging for the court gate , his cords , and his pins , and all the vessels of the service of the tabernacle , for the tent of the congregation , 39 : 41 The cloths of service to do service in the holy place , and the holy garments for Aaron the priest , and his sons ' garments , to minister in the priest ' s office .
26 : 19 And I will break the pride of your power ; and I will make your heaven as iron , and your earth as brass : 26 : 20 And your strength shall be spent in vain : for your land shall not yield her increase , neither shall the trees of the land yield their fruits .
21 : 9 And Moses made a serpent of brass , and put it upon a pole , and it came to pass , that if a serpent had bitten any man , when he beheld the serpent of brass , he lived .
31 : 21 And Eleazar the priest said unto the men of war which went to the battle , This is the ordinance of the law which the LORD commanded Moses ; 31 : 22 Only the gold , and the silver , the brass , the iron , the tin , and the lead , 31 : 23 Every thing that may abide the fire , ye shall make it go through the fire , and it shall be clean : nevertheless it shall be purified with the water of separation : and all that abideth not the fire ye shall make go through the water .
8 : 7 For the LORD thy God bringeth thee into a good land , a land of brooks of water , of fountains and depths that spring out of valleys and hills ; 8 : 8 A land of wheat , and barley , and vines , and fig trees , and pomegranates ; a land of oil olive , and honey ; 8 : 9 A land wherein thou shalt eat bread without scarceness , thou shalt not lack any thing in it ; a land whose stones are iron , and out of whose hills thou mayest dig brass .
28 : 23 And thy heaven that is over thy head shall be brass , and the earth that is under thee shall be iron .
33 : 25 Thy shoes shall be iron and brass ; and as thy days , so shall thy strength be .
6 : 19 But all the silver , and gold , and vessels of brass and iron , are consecrated unto the LORD : they shall come into the treasury of the LORD .
6 : 24 And they burnt the city with fire , and all that was therein : only the silver , and the gold , and the vessels of brass and of iron , they put into the treasury of the house of the LORD .
And when Joshua sent them away also unto their tents , then he blessed them , 22 : 8 And he spake unto them , saying , Return with much riches unto your tents , and with very much cattle , with silver , and with gold , and with brass , and with iron , and with very much raiment : divide the spoil of your enemies with your brethren .
16 : 21 But the Philistines took him , and put out his eyes , and brought him down to Gaza , and bound him with fetters of brass ; and he did grind in the prison house .
17 : 5 And he had an helmet of brass upon his head , and he was armed with a coat of mail ; and the weight of the coat was five thousand shekels of brass .
17 : 6 And he had greaves of brass upon his legs , and a target of brass between his shoulders .
17 : 38 And Saul armed David with his armour , and he put an helmet of brass upon his head ; also he armed him with a coat of mail .
8 : 8 And from Betah , and from Berothai , cities of Hadadezer , king David took exceeding much brass .
And Joram brought with him vessels of silver , and vessels of gold , and vessels of brass : 8 : 11 Which also king David did dedicate unto the LORD , with the silver and gold that he had dedicated of all nations which he subdued ; 8 : 12 Of Syria , and of Moab , and of the children of Ammon , and of the Philistines , and of Amalek , and of the spoil of Hadadezer , son of Rehob , king of Zobah .
21 : 16 And Ishbibenob , which was of the sons of the giant , the weight of whose spear weighed three hundred shekels of brass in weight , he being girded with a new sword , thought to have slain David .
7 : 14 He was a widow ' s son of the tribe of Naphtali , and his father was a man of Tyre , a worker in brass : and he was filled with wisdom , and understanding , and cunning to work all works in brass .
7 : 15 For he cast two pillars of brass , of eighteen cubits high apiece : and a line of twelve cubits did compass either of them about .
7 : 16 And he made two chapiters of molten brass , to set upon the tops of the pillars : the height of the one chapiter was five cubits , and the height of the other chapiter was five cubits : 7 : 17 And nets of checker work , and wreaths of chain work , for the chapiters which were upon the top of the pillars ; seven for the one chapiter , and seven for the other chapiter .
7 : 27 And he made ten bases of brass ; four cubits was the length of one base , and four cubits the breadth thereof , and three cubits the height of it .
7 : 30 And every base had four brasen wheels , and plates of brass : and the four corners thereof had undersetters : under the laver were undersetters molten , at the side of every addition .
7 : 38 Then made he ten lavers of brass : one laver contained forty baths : and every laver was four cubits : and upon every one of the ten bases one laver .
So Hiram made an end of doing all the work that he made king Solomon for the house of the LORD : 7 : 41 The two pillars , and the two bowls of the chapiters that were on the top of the two pillars ; and the two networks , to cover the two bowls of the chapiters which were upon the top of the pillars ; 7 : 42 And four hundred pomegranates for the two networks , even two rows of pomegranates for one network , to cover the two bowls of the chapiters that were upon the pillars ; 7 : 43 And the ten bases , and ten lavers on the bases ; 7 : 44 And one sea , and twelve oxen under the sea ; 7 : 45 And the pots , and the shovels , and the basons : and all these vessels , which Hiram made to king Solomon for the house of the LORD , were of bright brass .
7 : 47 And Solomon left all the vessels unweighed , because they were exceeding many : neither was the weight of the brass found out .
25 : 7 And they slew the sons of Zedekiah before his eyes , and put out the eyes of Zedekiah , and bound him with fetters of brass , and carried him to Babylon .
25 : 13 And the pillars of brass that were in the house of the LORD , and the bases , and the brasen sea that was in the house of the LORD , did the Chaldees break in pieces , and carried the brass of them to Babylon .
25 : 14 And the pots , and the shovels , and the snuffers , and the spoons , and all the vessels of brass wherewith they ministered , took they away .
25 : 16 The two pillars , one sea , and the bases which Solomon had made for the house of the LORD ; the brass of all these vessels was without weight .
25 : 17 The height of the one pillar was eighteen cubits , and the chapiter upon it was brass : and the height of the chapiter three cubits ; and the wreathen work , and pomegranates upon the chapiter round about , all of brass : and like unto these had the second pillar with wreathen work .
15 : 19 So the singers , Heman , Asaph , and Ethan , were appointed to sound with cymbals of brass ; 15 : 20 And Zechariah , and Aziel , and Shemiramoth , and Jehiel , and Unni , and Eliab , and Maaseiah , and Benaiah , with psalteries on Alamoth ; 15 : 21 And Mattithiah , and Elipheleh , and Mikneiah , and Obededom , and Jeiel , and Azaziah , with harps on the Sheminith to excel .
18 : 8 Likewise from Tibhath , and from Chun , cities of Hadarezer , brought David very much brass , wherewith Solomon made the brasen sea , and the pillars , and the vessels of brass .
18 : 9 Now when Tou king of Hamath heard how David had smitten all the host of Hadarezer king of Zobah ; 18 : 10 He sent Hadoram his son to king David , to enquire of his welfare , and to congratulate him , because he had fought against Hadarezer , and smitten him ; ( for Hadarezer had war with Tou ;) and with him all manner of vessels of gold and silver and brass .
22 : 3 And David prepared iron in abundance for the nails for the doors of the gates , and for the joinings ; and brass in abundance without weight ; 22 : 4 Also cedar trees in abundance : for the Zidonians and they of Tyre brought much cedar wood to David .
22 : 14 Now , behold , in my trouble I have prepared for the house of the LORD an hundred thousand talents of gold , and a thousand thousand talents of silver ; and of brass and iron without weight ; for it is in abundance : timber also and stone have I prepared ; and thou mayest add thereto .
22 : 16 Of the gold , the silver , and the brass , and the iron , there is no number .
29 : 2 Now I have prepared with all my might for the house of my God the gold for things to be made of gold , and the silver for things of silver , and the brass for things of brass , the iron for things of iron , and wood for things of wood ; onyx stones , and stones to be set , glistering stones , and of divers colours , and all manner of precious stones , and marble stones in abundance .
29 : 6 Then the chief of the fathers and princes of the tribes of Israel and the captains of thousands and of hundreds , with the rulers of the king ' s work , offered willingly , 29 : 7 And gave for the service of the house of God of gold five thousand talents and ten thousand drams , and of silver ten thousand talents , and of brass eighteen thousand talents , and one hundred thousand talents of iron .
2 : 7 Send me now therefore a man cunning to work in gold , and in silver , and in brass , and in iron , and in purple , and crimson , and blue , and that can skill to grave with the cunning men that are with me in Judah and in Jerusalem , whom David my father did provide .
2 : 13 And now I have sent a cunning man , endued with understanding , of Huram my father ' s , 2 : 14 The son of a woman of the daughters of Dan , and his father was a man of Tyre , skilful to work in gold , and in silver , in brass , in iron , in stone , and in timber , in purple , in blue , and in fine linen , and in crimson ; also to grave any manner of graving , and to find out every device which shall be put to him , with thy cunning men , and with the cunning men of my lord David thy father .
4 : 1 Moreover he made an altar of brass , twenty cubits the length thereof , and twenty cubits the breadth thereof , and ten cubits the height thereof .
4 : 9 Furthermore he made the court of the priests , and the great court , and doors for the court , and overlaid the doors of them with brass .
4 : 16 The pots also , and the shovels , and the fleshhooks , and all their instruments , did Huram his father make to king Solomon for the house of the LORD of bright brass .
4 : 18 Thus Solomon made all these vessels in great abundance : for the weight of the brass could not be found out .
12 : 10 Instead of which king Rehoboam made shields of brass , and committed them to the hands of the chief of the guard , that kept the entrance of the king ' s house .
24 : 12 And the king and Jehoiada gave it to such as did the work of the service of the house of the LORD , and hired masons and carpenters to repair the house of the LORD , and also such as wrought iron and brass to mend the house of the LORD .
or is my flesh of brass ?
28 : 2 Iron is taken out of the earth , and brass is molten out of the stone .
40 : 18 His bones are as strong pieces of brass ; his bones are like bars of iron .
41 : 27 He esteemeth iron as straw , and brass as rotten wood .
107 : 16 For he hath broken the gates of brass , and cut the bars of iron in sunder .
45 : 1 Thus saith the LORD to his anointed , to Cyrus , whose right hand I have holden , to subdue nations before him ; and I will loose the loins of kings , to open before him the two leaved gates ; and the gates shall not be shut ; 45 : 2 I will go before thee , and make the crooked places straight : I will break in pieces the gates of brass , and cut in sunder the bars of iron : 45 : 3 And I will give thee the treasures of darkness , and hidden riches of secret places , that thou mayest know that I , the LORD , which call thee by thy name , am the God of Israel .
48 : 4 Because I knew that thou art obstinate , and thy neck is an iron sinew , and thy brow brass ; 48 : 5 I have even from the beginning declared it to thee ; before it came to pass I shewed it thee : lest thou shouldest say , Mine idol hath done them , and my graven image , and my molten image , hath commanded them .
60 : 17 For brass I will bring gold , and for iron I will bring silver , and for wood brass , and for stones iron : I will also make thy officers peace , and thine exactors righteousness .
6 : 28 They are all grievous revolters , walking with slanders : they are brass and iron ; they are all corrupters .
52 : 17 Also the pillars of brass that were in the house of the LORD , and the bases , and the brasen sea that was in the house of the LORD , the Chaldeans brake , and carried all the brass of them to Babylon .
52 : 18 The caldrons also , and the shovels , and the snuffers , and the bowls , and the spoons , and all the vessels of brass wherewith they ministered , took they away .
52 : 20 The two pillars , one sea , and twelve brasen bulls that were under the bases , which king Solomon had made in the house of the LORD : the brass of all these vessels was without weight .
52 : 22 And a chapiter of brass was upon it ; and the height of one chapiter was five cubits , with network and pomegranates upon the chapiters round about , all of brass .
1 : 7 And their feet were straight feet ; and the sole of their feet was like the sole of a calf ' s foot : and they sparkled like the colour of burnished brass .
22 : 17 And the word of the LORD came unto me , saying , 22 : 18 Son of man , the house of Israel is to me become dross : all they are brass , and tin , and iron , and lead , in the midst of the furnace ; they are even the dross of silver .
22 : 20 As they gather silver , and brass , and iron , and lead , and tin , into the midst of the furnace , to blow the fire upon it , to melt it ; so will I gather you in mine anger and in my fury , and I will leave you there , and melt you .
24 : 11 Then set it empty upon the coals thereof , that the brass of it may be hot , and may burn , and that the filthiness of it may be molten in it , that the scum of it may be consumed .
27 : 13 Javan , Tubal , and Meshech , they were thy merchants : they traded the persons of men and vessels of brass in thy market .
40 : 3 And he brought me thither , and , behold , there was a man , whose appearance was like the appearance of brass , with a line of flax in his hand , and a measuring reed ; and he stood in the gate .
2 : 32 This image ' s head was of fine gold , his breast and his arms of silver , his belly and his thighs of brass , 2 : 33 His legs of iron , his feet part of iron and part of clay .
2 : 35 Then was the iron , the clay , the brass , the silver , and the gold , broken to pieces together , and became like the chaff of the summer threshingfloors ; and the wind carried them away , that no place was found for them : and the stone that smote the image became a great mountain , and filled the whole earth .
2 : 39 And after thee shall arise another kingdom inferior to thee , and another third kingdom of brass , which shall bear rule over all the earth .
2 : 45 Forasmuch as thou sawest that the stone was cut out of the mountain without hands , and that it brake in pieces the iron , the brass , the clay , the silver , and the gold ; the great God hath made known to the king what shall come to pass hereafter : and the dream is certain , and the interpretation thereof sure .
4 : 13 I saw in the visions of my head upon my bed , and , behold , a watcher and an holy one came down from heaven ; 4 : 14 He cried aloud , and said thus , Hew down the tree , and cut off his branches , shake off his leaves , and scatter his fruit : let the beasts get away from under it , and the fowls from his branches : 4 : 15 Nevertheless leave the stump of his roots in the earth , even with a band of iron and brass , in the tender grass of the field ; and let it be wet with the dew of heaven , and let his portion be with the beasts in the grass of the earth : 4 : 16 Let his heart be changed from man ' s , and let a beast ' s heart be given unto him ; and let seven times pass over him .
4 : 23 And whereas the king saw a watcher and an holy one coming down from heaven , and saying , Hew the tree down , and destroy it ; yet leave the stump of the roots thereof in the earth , even with a band of iron and brass , in the tender grass of the field ; and let it be wet with the dew of heaven , and let his portion be with the beasts of the field , till seven times pass over him ; 4 : 24 This is the interpretation , O king , and this is the decree of the most High , which is come upon my lord the king : 4 : 25 That they shall drive thee from men , and thy dwelling shall be with the beasts of the field , and they shall make thee to eat grass as oxen , and they shall wet thee with the dew of heaven , and seven times shall pass over thee , till thou know that the most High ruleth in the kingdom of men , and giveth it to whomsoever he will .
5 : 4 They drank wine , and praised the gods of gold , and of silver , of brass , of iron , of wood , and of stone .
5 : 22 And thou his son , O Belshazzar , hast not humbled thine heart , though thou knewest all this ; 5 : 23 But hast lifted up thyself against the Lord of heaven ; and they have brought the vessels of his house before thee , and thou , and thy lords , thy wives , and thy concubines , have drunk wine in them ; and thou hast praised the gods of silver , and gold , of brass , iron , wood , and stone , which see not , nor hear , nor know : and the God in whose hand thy breath is , and whose are all thy ways , hast thou not glorified : 5 : 24 Then was the part of the hand sent from him ; and this writing was written .
7 : 19 Then I would know the truth of the fourth beast , which was diverse from all the others , exceeding dreadful , whose teeth were of iron , and his nails of brass ; which devoured , brake in pieces , and stamped the residue with his feet ; 7 : 20 And of the ten horns that were in his head , and of the other which came up , and before whom three fell ; even of that horn that had eyes , and a mouth that spake very great things , whose look was more stout than his fellows .
10 : 4 And in the four and twentieth day of the first month , as I was by the side of the great river , which is Hiddekel ; 10 : 5 Then I lifted up mine eyes , and looked , and behold a certain man clothed in linen , whose loins were girded with fine gold of Uphaz : 10 : 6 His body also was like the beryl , and his face as the appearance of lightning , and his eyes as lamps of fire , and his arms and his feet like in colour to polished brass , and the voice of his words like the voice of a multitude .
4 : 13 Arise and thresh , O daughter of Zion : for I will make thine horn iron , and I will make thy hoofs brass : and thou shalt beat in pieces many people : and I will consecrate their gain unto the LORD , and their substance unto the Lord of the whole earth .
6 : 1 And I turned , and lifted up mine eyes , and looked , and , behold , there came four chariots out from between two mountains ; and the mountains were mountains of brass .
10 : 9 Provide neither gold , nor silver , nor brass in your purses , 10 : 10 Nor scrip for your journey , neither two coats , neither shoes , nor yet staves : for the workman is worthy of his meat .
13 : 1 Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels , and have not charity , I am become as sounding brass , or a tinkling cymbal .
1 : 14 His head and his hairs were white like wool , as white as snow ; and his eyes were as a flame of fire ; 1 : 15 And his feet like unto fine brass , as if they burned in a furnace ; and his voice as the sound of many waters .
2 : 18 And unto the angel of the church in Thyatira write ; These things saith the Son of God , who hath his eyes like unto a flame of fire , and his feet are like fine brass ; 2 : 19 I know thy works , and charity , and service , and faith , and thy patience , and thy works ; and the last to be more than the first .
9 : 20 And the rest of the men which were not killed by these plagues yet repented not of the works of their hands , that they should not worship devils , and idols of gold , and silver , and brass , and stone , and of wood : which neither can see , nor hear , nor walk : 9 : 21 Neither repented they of their murders , nor of their sorceries , nor of their fornication , nor of their thefts .
18 : 11 And the merchants of the earth shall weep and mourn over her ; for no man buyeth their merchandise any more : 18 : 12 The merchandise of gold , and silver , and precious stones , and of pearls , and fine linen , and purple , and silk , and scarlet , and all thyine wood , and all manner vessels of ivory , and all manner vessels of most precious wood , and of brass , and iron , and marble , 18 : 13 And cinnamon , and odours , and ointments , and frankincense , and wine , and oil , and fine flour , and wheat , and beasts , and sheep , and horses , and chariots , and slaves , and souls of men .
David looked to see what the trouble was , and he saw a strange sight : down the slope of the opposite mountain came striding a Philistine warrior , calling out something in a taunting voice ; he was a gigantic man , the largest David had ever seen , and he was covered with armour , that shone in the sun : he had a helmet of brass upon his head , and he was armed with a coat of mail , and he had greaves of brass upon his legs , and a target of brass between his shoulders ; his spear was so tremendous that the staff of it was like a weaver ' s beam , and his shield so great that a man went before him , to carry it .
And he armed David with his own armour ,-- he put a helmet of brass upon his head , and armed him with a coat of mail .
As she said this , she came upon a neat little house , on the door of which was a bright brass plate with the name ' W .
It was made of brass like all the Heroic weapons , but , oddly enough , sharp enough to prick anyone still .
The brass dagger lay flat and gleaming a yard or so away .
" We know there ' s blood on the brass now .
I thought of that living and growing gold calling to me from all the heaths of the world -- and then of that dead , dull gold and bronze and brass of my brother ' s growing dustier and dustier as life went by .
" I can quite understand that it ' s nicer to cover them with hair than with brass plates or leather flaps .
The corners of the expiring sunset which seemed to cling about the corners of the house gave glimpses here and there of the colours of remoter flowerbeds ; and in a treeless space on one side of the house opening upon the river stood a tall brass tripod on which was tilted a big brass telescope .
On Syme ' s heated head the bray of the brass band seemed like the jar and jingle of that barrel - organ in Leicester Square , to the tune of which he had once stood up to die .
" That is impossible ," retorted she , vehemently , " for I left this candlestick with my own hands last night , in the hall , the last thing I did , after you ," said she , turning to the butler , " was gone to bed -- I ' m sure of it -- Nay , don ' t you recollect my taking this JAPANNED CANDLESTICK out of your hand , and making you to go up to bed with the brass one , and I bolted the door at the stair - head after you ?"
This was all very true ; but Corkscrew had afterwards gone down from his room by a back staircase , unbolted that door , and , upon his return from the alehouse , had taken the japanned candlestick by mistake upstairs , and had left the brass one in its stead upon the hall table .
" As the Lakeman ' s bare head was just level with the planks , the Captain and his posse leaped the barricade , and rapidly drawing over the slide of the scuttle , planted their group of hands upon it , and loudly called for the steward to bring the heavy brass padlock belonging to the companionway .
At some old gable - roofed country houses you will see brass whales hung by the tail for knockers to the road - side door .
Imprimis , fifty feet high in his socks ; then , chest modelled after the Thames Tunnel ; then , legs with roots to ' em , to stay in one place ; then , arms three feet through the wrist ; no heart at all , brass forehead , and about a quarter of an acre of fine brains ; and let me see -- shall I order eyes to see outwards ?
At last appear Hell - bounds , high reaching to the horrid roof , And thrice threefold the gates ; three folds were brass , Three iron , three of adamantine rock , Impenetrable , impaled with circling fire , Yet unconsumed .
So scoffing in ambiguous words , he scarce Had ended ; when to right and left the front Divided , and to either flank retired : Which to our eyes discovered , new and strange , A triple mounted row of pillars laid On wheels ( for like to pillars most they seemed , Or hollowed bodies made of oak or fir , With branches lopt , in wood or mountain felled ,) Brass , iron , stony mould , had not their mouths With hideous orifice gaped on us wide , Portending hollow truce : At each behind A Seraph stood , and in his hand a reed Stood waving tipt with fire ; while we , suspense , Collected stood within our thoughts amused , Not long ; for sudden all at once their reeds Put forth , and to a narrow vent applied With nicest touch .
In other part stood one who , at the forge Labouring , two massy clods of iron and brass Had melted , ( whether found where casual fire Had wasted woods on mountain or in vale , Down to the veins of earth ; thence gliding hot To some cave ' s mouth ; or whether washed by stream From underground ;) the liquid ore he drained Into fit moulds prepared ; from which he formed First his own tools ; then , what might else be wrought Fusil or graven in metal .
Thee for my recitative , Thee in the driving storm even as now , the snow , the winter - day declining , Thee in thy panoply , thy measur ' d dual throbbing and thy beat convulsive , Thy black cylindric body , golden brass and silvery steel , Thy ponderous side - bars , parallel and connecting rods , gyrating , shuttling at thy sides , Thy metrical , now swelling pant and roar , now tapering in the distance , Thy great protruding head - light fix ' d in front , Thy long , pale , floating vapor - pennants , tinged with delicate purple , The dense and murky clouds out - belching from thy smoke - stack , Thy knitted frame , thy springs and valves , the tremulous twinkle of thy wheels , Thy train of cars behind , obedient , merrily following , Through gale or calm , now swift , now slack , yet steadily careering ; Type of the modern -- emblem of motion and power -- pulse of the continent , For once come serve the Muse and merge in verse , even as here I see thee , With storm and buffeting gusts of wind and falling snow , By day thy warning ringing bell to sound its notes , By night thy silent signal lamps to swing .
Down on the ancient wharf , the sand , I sit , with a new - comer chatting : He shipp ' d as green - hand boy , and sail ' d away , ( took some sudden , vehement notion ;) Since , twenty years and more have circled round and round , While he the globe was circling round and round , -- and now returns : How changed the place -- all the old land - marks gone -- the parents dead ; ( Yes , he comes back to lay in port for good -- to settle -- has a well - fill ' d purse -- no spot will do but this ;) The little boat that scull ' d him from the sloop , now held in leash I see , I hear the slapping waves , the restless keel , the rocking in the sand , I see the sailor kit , the canvas bag , the great box bound with brass , I scan the face all berry - brown and bearded -- the stout - strong frame , Dress ' d in its russet suit of good Scotch cloth : ( Then what the told - out story of those twenty years ?
