He did such fine work that the Elector , Prince Johann Wilhelm , ordered a portrait statue of himself , on horseback , to be done in bronze .
It is said that there were two quite different kinds of people in Ireland : one set of people with long dark hair and dark eyes , called Fomorians -- they carried long slender spears made of golden bronze when they fought -- and another race of people who were golden - haired and blue - eyed , and who carried short , blunt , heavy spears of dull metal .
The front window had a glimmer of bronze and blue steel , lit , as by a few stars , by the sparks of what were alleged to be jewels ; for it was in brief , a shop of bric - a - brac and old curiosities .
When it came about a hundred feet above the garden , a shaggy , lean figure leapt up in it , almost black against the bronze and scarlet of the west , and , flinging out a kind of hook or anchor , caught on to the green apple - tree just under the wall ; and from that fixed holding ground the ship swung in the red tempest like a captive balloon .
It was a bronze coin , and the colour , combined with the exact curve of the Roman nose and something in the very lift of the long , wiry neck , made the head of Caesar on it the almost precise portrait of Philip Hawker .
I thought of that living and growing gold calling to me from all the heaths of the world -- and then of that dead , dull gold and bronze and brass of my brother ' s growing dustier and dustier as life went by .
" Then it rushed over me that I was being blackmailed for the theft of the bronze piece ; and all my merely superstitious fears and doubts were swallowed up in one overpowering , practical question .
The priest held up the bronze head of Caesar .
On the small rock platform stood an old bronze lectern or reading - stand , groaning under a great German Bible .
The bronze or copper of it had grown green with the eating airs of that exalted place , and Otto had instantly the thought , " Even if they had arms , they must be rusted by now ."
The sealed and sullen sunset behind the dark dome of St . Paul ' s had in it smoky and sinister colours -- colours of sickly green , dead red or decaying bronze , that were just bright enough to emphasise the solid whiteness of the snow .
His whole high , broad form , seemed made of solid bronze , and shaped in an unalterable mould , like Cellini ' s cast Perseus .
Of modern standers - of - mast - heads we have but a lifeless set ; mere stone , iron , and bronze men ; who , though well capable of facing out a stiff gale , are still entirely incompetent to the business of singing out upon discovering any strange sight .
Around a palace , loftier , fairer , ampler than any yet , Earth ' s modern wonder , history ' s seven outstripping , High rising tier on tier with glass and iron facades , Gladdening the sun and sky , enhued in cheerfulest hues , Bronze , lilac , robin ' s - egg , marine and crimson , Over whose golden roof shall flaunt , beneath thy banner Freedom , The banners of the States and flags of every land , A brood of lofty , fair , but lesser palaces shall cluster .
