The charming Augusta Hawkins , in addition to all the usual advantages of perfect beauty and merit , was in possession of an independent fortune , of so many thousands as would always be called ten ; a point of some dignity , as well as some convenience : the story told well ; he had not thrown himself away -- he had gained a woman of 10 , 000 l . or thereabouts ; and he had gained her with such delightful rapidity -- the first hour of introduction had been so very soon followed by distinguishing notice ; the history which he had to give Mrs . Cole of the rise and progress of the affair was so glorious -- the steps so quick , from the accidental rencontre , to the dinner at Mr . Green ' s , and the party at Mrs . Brown ' s -- smiles and blushes rising in importance -- with consciousness and agitation richly scattered -- the lady had been so easily impressed -- so sweetly disposed -- had in short , to use a most intelligible phrase , been so very ready to have him , that vanity and prudence were equally contented .
could the originals of the portraits against the wainscot , could the gentlemen in brown velvet and the ladies in blue satin have seen what was going on , have been conscious of such an overthrow of all order and neatness !
Her skin was very brown , but , from its transparency , her complexion was uncommonly brilliant ; her features were all good ; her smile was sweet and attractive ; and in her eyes , which were very dark , there was a life , a spirit , an eagerness , which could hardily be seen without delight .
I have three unanswerable reasons for disliking Colonel Brandon ; he threatened me with rain when I wanted it to be fine ; he has found fault with the hanging of my curricle , and I cannot persuade him to buy my brown mare .
The idea of Edward ' s being a clergyman , and living in a small parsonage - house , diverted him beyond measure ;-- and when to that was added the fanciful imagery of Edward reading prayers in a white surplice , and publishing the banns of marriage between John Smith and Mary Brown , he could conceive nothing more ridiculous .
30 : 32 I will pass through all thy flock to day , removing from thence all the speckled and spotted cattle , and all the brown cattle among the sheep , and the spotted and speckled among the goats : and of such shall be my hire .
30 : 33 So shall my righteousness answer for me in time to come , when it shall come for my hire before thy face : every one that is not speckled and spotted among the goats , and brown among the sheep , that shall be counted stolen with me .
30 : 35 And he removed that day the he goats that were ringstraked and spotted , and all the she goats that were speckled and spotted , and every one that had some white in it , and all the brown among the sheep , and gave them into the hand of his sons .
30 : 40 And Jacob did separate the lambs , and set the faces of the flocks toward the ringstraked , and all the brown in the flock of Laban ; and he put his own flocks by themselves , and put them not unto Laban ' s cattle .
Far below lay the earth , brown , dry , and desolate , from drought .
There , on the lowest shelf , behind some stone jars , stood a big paper bag of brown sugar .
This was even better than the brown sugar .
I ' d rather have barley and grain to eat and eat it in peace and comfort , than have brown sugar and dried prunes and cheese ,-- and be frightened to death all the time !"
I take the snow and the rain and the cold , and I am not sorry , but glad ; for in my roots I feel warmth and life , and I know that a store of greenness and beauty is shut up safe in my small brown buds .
Once upon a time , there was a little brown Field Mouse ; and one day he was out in the fields to see what he could find .
So the little brown Mouse was the little Red Man ' s servant , and every day he made the little Red Man ' s bed and swept the little Red Man ' s room and cooked the little Red Man ' s broth .
Next day Epaminondas went to see his Auntie again , and when he came to go home she gave him a loaf of bread to carry to his Mammy ; a brown , fresh , crusty loaf of bread .
So then she winds it , shiny brown , Around her head into a crown , Just like the day before .
It was a valley of brown , bare , desert soil , in a climate where almost no rain falls ; but the snow on the mountain - tops sent down little streams of pure water , the winds were gentle , and lying like a blue jewel at the foot of the western hills was a marvellous lake of salt water ,-- an inland sea .
In good time the seeds sprouted , and the dry , brown earth was covered with a carpet of tender , green , growing things .
MISS MARGERY BROWN , PRIMROSE COTTAGE , 21 NARCISSUS ROAD , COLCHESTER .
Father Brown loved Margery and Margery ' s mother so much that he wanted their garden to be perfect , and that meant a great deal more work .
The little footpaths were marked out by Father Brown ' s feet ; Margery and her mother laughed well at his actions , for it looked like some kind of dance .
Mr Brown had seen gardeners do it when he was a little boy , and he did it very nicely : he walked along the sides of the square , with one foot turned a little out , and the other straight , taking such tiny steps that his feet touched each other all the time .
Between the flowers and the middle path went the seeds for that wonderful salad garden ; all the things Mrs Brown had named to Margery were there .
The garden was just as smooth and brown as the night before , and no little seedlings were in sight .
So the two little brown - coated scamps turned down the Laughing Brook , taking the greatest care to keep out of sight themselves .
Farmer Brown ' s boy fished there too , sometimes , and this always made Little Joe and Billy Mink very angry , but they were so afraid of him that they didn ' t dare do anything about it .
FARMER BROWN ' S BOY HAS NO LUCK AT ALL
Farmer Brown ' s boy tramped through the Green Forest , whistling merrily .
He knew every pool in the Laughing Brook where the trout love to hide , did Farmer Brown ' s boy , and it was just the kind of a morning when the trout should be hungry .
Now Farmer Brown ' s boy learned a long time ago that to be a successful fisherman one must have a great deal of patience , so though he didn ' t get a bite right away as he had expected to , he wasn ' t the least bit discouraged .
" Either the trout have lost their appetite or they have grown very wise ," muttered Farmer Brown ' s boy , as after a long time he moved on to the next little pool .
Farmer Brown ' s boy trudged on to the next pool , and there was a puzzled frown on his freckled face .
Farmer Brown ' s boy scowled down at them more puzzled than ever .
The farther he went down the Laughing Brook , the more puzzled Farmer Brown ' s boy grew .
FARMER BROWN ' S BOY FEELS HIS HAIR RISE
' Twas just a sudden odd surprise Made Farmer Brown ' s boy ' s hair to rise .
But that is just what the hair on Farmer Brown ' s boy ' s head did the day he went fishing in the Laughing Brook and had no luck at all .
But there is only one thing that can make the hair on the head of Farmer Brown ' s boy rise , and as it isn ' t anger , of course it must be fear .
You see , there isn ' t much of anything that Farmer Brown ' s boy is really afraid of .
You see when he had found the heads of those trout on the bank he knew right away that some one else had been fishing , and that was why he couldn ' t catch any ; but it didn ' t seem possible that little Billy Mink could have eaten all those trout , and Farmer Brown ' s boy didn ' t once think of Little Joe Otter , and so he was very , very much puzzled .
But it was the biggest footprint Farmer Brown ' s boy ever had seen , and it looked as if it had been made only a few minutes before .
Now Farmer Brown ' s boy didn ' t know that Buster Bear had come down to the Green Forest to live .
All the way home through the Green Forest , Farmer Brown ' s boy kept looking behind him , and he didn ' t draw a long breath until he reached the edge of the Green Forest .
Little Joe Otter looked around at all the eager faces watching him , and then in the slowest , most provoking way , he drawled : " Farmer Brown ' s boy is afraid of Buster Bear ."
Farmer Brown ' s boy isn ' t afraid of any one who lives in the Green Forest or on the Green Meadows or in the Smiling Pool , and you know it .
Then he told how early that very morning he and Buster Bear had been fishing together in the Laughing Brook , and how Farmer Brown ' s boy had been fishing there too , and hadn ' t caught a single trout because they had all been caught or frightened before he got there .
Then he told how Farmer Brown ' s boy had found a footprint of Buster Bear in the soft mud , and how he had stopped fishing right away and started for home , looking behind him with fear in his eyes all the way .
The news that Little Joe Otter told at the Smiling Pool ,-- how Farmer Brown ' s boy had run away from Buster Bear without even seeing him ,-- soon spread all over the Green Meadows and through the Green Forest , until every one who lives there knew about it .
You see , they had all been afraid of Farmer Brown ' s boy for so long that they were tickled almost to pieces at the very thought of having some one in the Green Forest who could make Farmer Brown ' s boy feel fear as they had felt it .
Blacky doubted because he knew Farmer Brown ' s boy so well that he couldn ' t imagine him afraid .
So Reddy pretended not to believe a word of what Little Joe Otter had said , and he agreed with Blacky that only by seeing Farmer Brown ' s boy afraid could he ever be made to believe it .
But they were still more afraid of Farmer Brown ' s boy , because they didn ' t know him or understand him , and because in the past he had tried to catch some of them in traps and had hunted some of them with his terrible gun .
" Now I guess Farmer Brown ' s boy will keep away from the Green Forest , and we won ' t have to be all the time watching out for him ," said Bobby Coon , as he washed his dinner in the Laughing Brook , for you know he is very neat and particular .
" Ah wish Brer Bear would go up to Farmer Brown ' s henhouse and scare Farmer Brown ' s boy so that he would keep away from there .
" But you say yourself that Farmer Brown ' s boy didn ' t see Buster Bear , but only his footprint .
They had all come at his invitation to listen to a plan for seeing for themselves if it were really true that Farmer Brown ' s boy was afraid of Buster Bear .
" Little Joe Otter has told us how he saw Farmer Brown ' s boy hurry home when he found the footprint of Buster Bear on the edge of the Laughing Brook , and how all the way he kept looking behind him , as if he were afraid .
Now I don ' t say that I don ' t believe it , but I do say that I will be a lot more sure that Farmer Brown ' s boy is afraid of Buster when I see him run away myself .
Farmer Brown ' s boy has a lot of curiosity , and he will be sure to come over to see what it is all about .
FARMER BROWN ' S BOY AND BUSTER BEAR GROW CURIOUS
Ever since it was light enough to see at all , Blacky the Crow had been sitting in the top of the tallest tree on the edge of the Green Forest nearest to Farmer Brown ' s house , and never for an instant had he taken his eyes from Farmer Brown ' s back door .
Why , for Farmer Brown ' s boy to come out on his way to milk the cows .
By and by the back door of Farmer Brown ' s house opened , and out stepped Farmer Brown ' s boy .
Farmer Brown ' s boy looked over there as if he wondered what all that fuss was about , as indeed he did , but he didn ' t start to go over and see .
So , when Farmer Brown ' s boy started for the barn instead of for the Green Forest , Blacky didn ' t know what to make of it .
He screamed harder and louder than ever , until his voice grew so hoarse he couldn ' t scream any more , but Farmer Brown ' s boy kept right on to the barn .
When Farmer Brown ' s boy disappeared in the barn , Chatterer the Red Squirrel snickered right out loud .
It seemed as if Farmer Brown ' s boy never would come out , but at last he did .
Farmer Brown ' s boy took the two pails of milk into the house , then out he came and started straight for the Green Forest .
So at the same time Farmer Brown ' s boy started for the Green Forest , this other listener started towards the place where Blacky and Sammy were making such a racket .
FARMER BROWN ' S BOY AND BUSTER BEAR MEET
That is what Farmer Brown ' s boy did when he met Buster Bear , and a lot of the little people of the Green Forest and some from the Green Meadows saw him .
When Farmer Brown ' s boy came hurrying home from the Laughing Brook without any fish one day and told about the great footprint he had seen in a muddy place on the bank deep in the Green Forest , and had said his was sure that it was the footprint of a Bear , he had been laughed at .
Farmer Brown had laughed and laughed .
Buster Bear _had_ come to live in the Green Forest , and Farmer Brown ' s boy _had_ seen his footprint .
But Farmer Brown laughed so much and made fun of him so much , that at last his boy began to think that he must have been mistaken after all .
They felt sure that Farmer Brown ' s boy would follow them , and they meant to lead him to where Sammy had seen Buster Bear that morning .
Then they would find out for sure if what Little Joe Otter had said was true ,-- that Farmer Brown ' s boy really was afraid of Buster Bear .
You see , they had come to believe that Farmer Brown ' s boy wasn ' t afraid of anybody or anything , and as most of them were very much afraid of him , they had hard work to believe that he would really be afraid of even such a great , big , strong fellow as Buster Bear .
Every one was so busy watching Farmer Brown ' s boy that no one saw Buster coming from the other direction .
And that is how it happened that no one saw him or heard him until just as Farmer Brown ' s boy stepped out from behind one side of a thick little hemlock - tree , Buster Bear stepped out from behind the other side of that same little tree , and there they were face to face !
Farmer Brown ' s boy had just stepped out from behind one side of a little hemlock - tree and Buster Bear had just stepped out from behind the opposite side of the little hemlock - tree and neither had known that the other was anywhere near .
Farmer Brown ' s boy opened his mouth and yelled !
There was no doubt about it , for with the yell Farmer Brown ' s boy turned and ran for home , as no one ever had seen him run before .
Why , Buster Bear was running away too , and he was running twice as fast as Farmer Brown ' s boy !
When Little Joe Otter had told how Farmer Brown ' s boy had been afraid at the mere sight of one of Buster Bear ' s big footprints , they had at once made a hero of Buster .
As this was the first time , the very first time , that they had ever known any one who lives in the Green Forest to make Farmer Brown ' s boy run away , they looked on Buster Bear with a great deal of respect and were very proud of him .
But now they had seen Buster Bear and Farmer Brown ' s boy meet face to face ; and while it was true that Farmer Brown ' s boy had run away as fast as ever he could , it was also true that Buster Bear had done the same thing .
He had run even faster than Farmer Brown ' s boy , and had hidden in the most lonely place he could find in the very deepest part of the Green Forest .
I can eat all I want and get back to the Green Forest before there is any danger that Farmer Brown ' s boy or any one else I ' m afraid of will see me .
asked Farmer Brown ' s boy of his mother .
Of course Mrs . Brown promised that she would , and so that night Farmer Brown ' s boy went to bed very early that he might get up early in the morning , and all night long he dreamed of berries and berry pies .
Jolly , round , red Mr . Sun had climbed a little way up in the sky by the time Farmer Brown ' s boy reached the Old Pasture , and was smiling down on all the Great World , and all the Great World seemed to be smiling back .
Farmer Brown ' s boy started to whistle , and then he stopped .
You see , Farmer Brown ' s boy was just beginning to understand something that Peter Rabbit and the other little people of the Green Meadows and the Green Forest learned almost as soon as they learned to walk ,-- that if you don ' t want to be seen , you mustn ' t be heard .
Of course Farmer Brown ' s Boy didn ' t let him .
You see , big as he is and strong as he is , Buster Bear is very shy and bashful , and he has no desire to meet Farmer Brown , or Farmer Brown ' s boy , or any other of those two - legged creatures called men .
So when he started to look for berries , he made up his mind that he would eat what he could in a great hurry and get back to the Green Forest before Farmer Brown ' s boy was more than out of bed .
He saw Farmer Brown ' s boy filling a great tin pail with blueberries , and he knew that Farmer Brown ' s boy didn ' t know that Buster Bear was anywhere about , and he knew that Buster Bear didn ' t know that Farmer Brown ' s boy was anywhere about , and somehow he felt very sure that he would see something funny happen if they should chance to meet .
BUSTER BEAR CARRIES OFF THE PAIL OF FARMER BROWN ' S BOY
The question is , did Buster Bear steal Farmer Brown ' s boy ' s pail ?
It was the voice of Farmer Brown ' s boy .
You see Farmer Brown ' s boy had just discovered Buster Bear .
He gave one frightened look at Farmer Brown ' s boy , and then with a mighty " Woof !"
Yes , Sir , Buster Bear ran away with the big tin pail of Farmer Brown ' s boy !
And that brings us back to the question , did Buster steal Farmer Brown ' s boy ' s pail ?
It was bad enough to be frightened almost to death as he had been up in the Old Pasture when the pail had caught over his head just as Farmer Brown ' s boy had yelled at him .
" You got no more than you deserve for stealing Farmer Brown ' s boy ' s berries ," said Sammy Jay , who had come back and was looking on from the top of a tree .
FARMER BROWN ' S BOY LUNCHES ON BERRIES
That is what Farmer Brown ' s boy said when he found that Buster Bear had stolen the berries he had worked so hard to pick and then had run off with the pail .
You see , Farmer Brown ' s boy is learning to be something of a philosopher , one of those people who accept bad things cheerfully and right away see how they are better than they might have been .
When he had yelled and Buster Bear had suddenly appeared , struggling to get off the pail which had caught over his head , Farmer Brown ' s boy had been too frightened to even move .
Chuckling happily over Buster Bear ' s great fright , Farmer Brown ' s boy tramped back to the spring where he had left two thick sandwiches on a flat stone when he started to save his pail of berries .
You see , Old Man Coyote had found them and gobbled them up while Farmer Brown ' s boy was away .
But Farmer Brown ' s boy didn ' t know anything about Old Man Coyote .
Farmer Brown ' s boy gaped foolishly this way and that way .
So Farmer Brown ' s boy made his lunch on blueberries and then rather sheepishly he started for home to tell of all the strange things that had happened to him in the Old Pasture .
A little bright - eyed terrier , you know , with oh , such long curly brown hair !
'' Tis the voice of the Lobster ; I heard him declare , " You have baked me too brown , I must sugar my hair ."
For a moment their eyes and nostrils were stopped with darkness and opaque cloud ; then the darkness warmed into a kind of brown fog .
And far , far below them the brown fog fell until it warmed into fire .
Michael had no mind to wonder whether this solid astonished man , with the brown moustache and the nickel buttons , had also come on a flying ship .
His reddish - brown hair , combed into two great curls , looked like the long , slow curling hair of the women in some pre - Raphaelite pictures .
She was clad in close - fitting dark costume , a mass of warm brown hair went out in two wings or waves on each side of her forehead ; and even at that distance it could be seen that her profile was of the aquiline and eager sort , like a young falcon hardly free of the nest .
He saw her face and hair first , then that she had long suede gloves ; then that there was a fur cap at the back of her brown hair .
The fact that the lady had a little fur at her throat ; the fact that the curve of her cheek was a low and lean curve and that the moonlight caught the height of her cheek - bone ; the fact that her hands were small but heavily gloved as they gripped the steering - wheel ; the fact that a white witch light was on the road ; the fact that the brisk breeze of their passage stirred and fluttered a little not only the brown hair of her head but the black fur on her cap .
Then the last flattening hammer fell upon poor Evan ' s embarrassment ; for the fluffy brown head with the furry black cap did not turn by a section of the compass .
The wind whipped back a curl of the brown hair so as to necessitate a new theory of aesthetics touching the line of the cheek - bone ; but the head did not turn .
Round the rays of the victorious sun swept a sort of rainbow of confused and conquered colours -- brown and blue and green and flaming rose - colour ; as though gold were driving before it all the colours of the world .
The girl ' s great brown eyes were lit up with a flash that was at once final desperation and the loosening of some private and passionate reserve .
They broke out upon a brown semicircle of sand , so free from human imprint as to justify Turnbull ' s profession .
" We are quite safe here ," said Turnbull , and , to the other ' s surprise , flung himself down , sitting on the brown beach .
On the top of the mound , against the sky line , stood up the brown skeleton of some broken fence or breakwater .
He was by this time walking in a world of omens and hieroglyphics , and he could not read anything but what was baffling or menacing in this brown gigantic arm of the earth stretched out into the sea to seize him .
MacIan was sitting somewhat disconsolately on a stump of tree , his large black head half buried in his large brown hands , when Turnbull strode up to him chewing a cigarette .
And as it came nearer it was evident , first , that it was not a cloud , and , second , that it was not itself of the colour of copper ; only , being burnished like a mirror , it had reflected the red - brown colours of the burning clouds .
The first was that his lean brown body was bare to the belt of his loose white trousers ; the other that through hygiene , affectation , or whatever other cause , he had a scarlet handkerchief tied tightly but somewhat aslant across his brow .
The only three facts that Turnbull could now add to his inventory were that the man had an ugly - looking knife swinging at his trousers belt , that his brown feet were as bare as his bronzed trunk and arms , and that his eyes had a singular bleak brilliancy which was of no particular colour .
The maze of gravel pathways faded from gold to brown .
Every morning and evening an iron hatchway opened in his oblong cell , and a brown hairy hand or two thrust in a plate of perfectly cooked lentils and a big bowl of cocoa .
The figure was draped , both insecurely and insufficiently , in what looked like the remains of a brown flannel dressing - gown ; an emptied cup of cocoa stood on the floor beside it , and the creature had his big grey head cocked at a particular angle of inquiry or attention which amid all that gathering gloom and mystery struck one as comic if not cocksure .
she said , smiling , and suddenly lifting her level brown eyebrows .
The ostensible cause of his removal was the unexpected reappearance of his two other acquaintances walking and talking laboriously along the way , with the black head bent close to the brown one .
I would confess it even to that old ass in brown flannel who talked to us about Love .
[ The Wisdom of Father Brown by G . K . Chesterton 1914 ]
" My name is Brown .
" Oh , this is of the greatest importance ," broke in the little man called Brown .
" Mr Brown ," he said gravely , " it is quite fourteen and a half years since I was personally asked to test a personal problem : then it was the case of an attempt to poison the French President at a Lord Mayor ' s Banquet .
Well , Mr Brown , I am a sportsman .
The little clergyman called Brown thanked him with unquestionable warmth , but still with a queer kind of simplicity .
" I told you my name was Brown ; well , that ' s the fact , and I ' m the priest of the little Catholic Church I dare say you ' ve seen beyond those straggly streets , where the town ends towards the north .
" Why , she wants to marry him ," cried Father Brown , sitting up eagerly .
" I ' m sorry to interrupt you , sir ," she said , " but I had to follow Father Brown at once ; it ' s nothing less than life or death ."
Father Brown began to get to his feet in some disorder .
" This is very serious ," said Father Brown , gathering his errant hat and umbrella and standing up ; " in point of fact I was just putting your case before this gentleman , and his view --"
His brown eyes were alive and shifted alertly .
" By the way ," said Father Brown , " might it not be as well to untie Mr Todhunter ?"
Father Brown , I seriously ask you to compose your flock , for their sakes , not for mine .
Father Brown , who had been looking dully at the carpet , lifted his round face and said : " What do you mean ?"
ejaculated Brown suddenly , " I wonder if it could possibly be that !"
cried Father Brown : " can ' t you see he ' s laughing ?"
" Well ," replied the Reverend Brown apologetically , " not to put too fine a point on it , I think he is laughing at you .
" I mean he is absent from everywhere ," answered Father Brown ; " he is absent from the Nature of Things , so to speak ."
" It is Mr Todhunter ' s ," replied Father Brown .
Father Brown shook his head with ineffable mildness .
" Rabbits ," replied Father Brown promptly .
" I do not mean inside Mr Todhunter ' s clothes ," said Father Brown .
" Mr Todhunter ," explained Father Brown placidly , " is learning to be a professional conjurer , as well as juggler , ventriloquist , and expert in the rope trick .
asked Father Brown .
Mr Brown broke into a rather childish giggle .
He had planted his person at a flying leap next to the lovely Englishwoman ; on the other side of her sat the priest , whose name was Brown and who was fortunately a silent individual ; the courier and the father and son were on the banc behind .
Then he looked up at the road from which they had fallen and saw , looking down on them , the muzzles of four other carbines and four other brown faces with bright but quite motionless eyes .
All were staring at him thunderstruck and still , except Father Brown , who heaved a huge sigh as of relief and fingered the little phial in his pocket .
The Reverend Father Brown and the celebrated Signor Muscari I shall release tomorrow at dawn and escort to my outposts .
He paused with an unpleasing smile ; and Father Brown blinked repeatedly at him , and seemed suddenly to be listening with great attention .
" There may be ," said Father Brown agnostically .
" The third objection ," said Father Brown , still in meditation , " is this bank we are sitting on .
Father Brown looked at the banker ; then he put his hand instinctively as if on his heart , but really on the little bottle of poison ; and a great light came into his face like the light of the revelation of death .
" Because ," said Father Brown , " her Doom is coming up the road ."
The anger of the Italian policeman , which he expressed volubly to Father Brown , was largely mixed with admiration .
His face was brown like a nut ; he had very bright and restless brown eyes ; his dark hair was brushed back stiffly in front and cropped close behind , outlining a square and powerful skull ; and he had a huge black moustache like the horns of a bison .
He did not lift his eyes from his plate , round which red pepper , lemons , brown bread and butter , etc ., were rigidly ranked , until a tall shadow fell across the table , and his friend Flambeau sat down opposite .
asked Father Brown .
asked Father Brown .
Father Brown seemed to cogitate ; he lifted a little whitebait on his fork .
Father Brown put down the small silver fish and the fork and stared across at his companion .
" I can ' t conceive ," said Brown ; " I don ' t understand this Hirsch affair at all .
" I don ' t know that either ," answered Brown , with a face of blank bewilderment .
" I wasn ' t thinking of Dreyfus ," said Father Brown .
" You mustn ' t be too hard on them ," said Father Brown gently .
Father Brown continued to consume whitebait .
The face of Father Brown was commonplace , but curiously contented ; it could shine with ignorance as well as with knowledge .
Brown said nothing , but finished his plate of fish .
" No ," said Father Brown , quite simply , but suddenly standing up , " for a very short journey .
" Don ' t talk so loud ," said Father Brown , lowering his voice , " your cursed Colonel is just in front ."
" He is escaping from everywhere ," answered Father Brown .
" They will never meet ," said Father Brown .
" They are the opposite of each other ," said Father Brown , with a queer kind of smile .
His brown complexion had gone , his big black moustache had gone ; he -- was clean - shaven and very pate .
Nothing remained of the Colonel but his bright , hawk - like , brown eyes .
Under the wall Father Brown was going on in heavy meditation , as if to himself .
For a spasm Flambeau saw the fierce , red - brown eyes dancing , then they were covered with a pair of blue spectacles .
She was clad in a somewhat strange garb of peacock green and peacock blue satins , that gleamed like blue and green metals , such as delight children and aesthetes , and her heavy , hot brown hair framed one of those magic faces which are dangerous to all men , but especially to boys and to men growing grey .
Nearly six - foot - six , and of more than theatrical thews and muscles , Isidore Bruno , in the gorgeous leopard skin and golden - brown garments of Oberon , looked like a barbaric god .
But at this open appeal to his rival there glowed in his opal eyeballs all the sensitive insolence of the slave ; he knotted his enormous brown fists for an instant , and then , dashing open the door , disappeared into his own apartments beyond .
He did not lose his dignity ; he said some civil words to Father Brown about the revival of Byzantine architecture in the Westminster Cathedral , and then , quite naturally , strolled out himself into the upper end of the passage .
Father Brown and Parkinson were left alone , and they were neither of them men with a taste for superfluous conversation .
Every time he pulled out the frame of a new glass , a new black figure of Father Brown appeared ; the absurd glass chamber was full of Father Browns , upside down in the air like angels , turning somersaults like acrobats , turning their backs to everybody like very rude persons .
Father Brown seemed quite unconscious of this cloud of witnesses , but followed Parkinson with an idly attentive eye till he took himself and his absurd spear into the farther room of Bruno .
Before Father Brown could turn in his heavy boots Seymour was plunging about the room looking for the weapon .
In the instant of time in which all this happened Father Brown stepped out into the top of the passage , looked down it , and at once walked briskly towards what he saw .
" My name is Brown ," said the priest sadly , as he bent over something and straightened himself again .
Father Brown instantly ran across to him , taking no notice of Cutler and the colossal actor , though the room already rang with their blows and they began to struggle for the dagger .
They took leave of Father Brown at the corner of the road , with some random apologies for any rudeness they might have shown .
" Will you understand my motives ," asked Father Brown quietly , " if I say you have done all you can to hurt ?"
" I know you did ," answered the cleric Brown with a face of wood , " so did Captain Cutler .
Before either could make sufficient sense of it even to answer , Father Brown had politely excused himself and gone stumping up the road with his stumpy old umbrella .
Therefore when Father Brown found her she could hardly have been dead for three .
He had been calling on Miss Rome at the theatre ; he had met Captain Cutler there ; they had been joined for a short time by the accused , who had then returned to his own dressing - room ; they had then been joined by a Roman Catholic priest , who asked for the deceased lady and said his name was Brown .
But unfortunately Sir Walter had somehow got it into his head ( mostly by some ramifications of his family ' s religion ) that Father Brown was on the side of the prisoner , because the prisoner was wicked and foreign and even partly black .
Therefore he took Father Brown up sharply whenever that proud pontiff tried to explain anything ; and told him to answer yes or no , and tell the plain facts without any jesuitry .
When Father Brown began , in his simplicity , to say who he thought the man in the passage was , the barrister told him that he did not want his theories .
Father Brown blinked as under rebuke ; but he had long known the literal nature of obedience .
The judge was looking at Father Brown with level and piercing eyes .
" He was myself ," said Father Brown .
And then , without stopping , he shot at Brown the apparently disconnected question : " You have heard about this dagger ; you know the experts say the crime was committed with a short blade ?"
" A short blade ," assented Brown , nodding solemnly like an owl , " but a very long hilt ."
" It was a looking - glass on the other side ," explained Father Brown .
" Yes , my lord ; that was what I was trying to say ," said Brown , " but they asked me for the shape ; and our hats have corners just like horns , and so I --"
" Yes , my lord ," said Father Brown .
Father Brown blinked even more painfully than before ; then he stammered : " Really , my lord , I don ' t know unless it ' s because I don ' t look at it so often ."
" I think it very interesting ," replied Father Brown ; " it reminds me of that interesting idea in the Dark Ages that blood would flow from a corpse if the murderer touched it ."
" I think them equally valueless ," replied Brown .
exclaimed Father Brown , " and how much more sentimental must American men of science be !
He liked Father Brown in a slightly patronizing way ; and Father Brown liked him , though he heartily disliked his theories .
" Why , words rather fail me ," answered Father Brown .
asked Father Brown , blinking .
Father Brown opened his innocent eyes wide .
" It would have been rather awkward ," remarked Brown , " if you had found he was a popular athlete practising a mile race ."
" A brilliant piece of rapid deduction ," said Father Brown ; " but had he got a gun ?"
" No machine can lie ," said Father Brown ; " nor can it tell the truth ."
" I mean Man ," said Father Brown , " the most unreliable machine I know of .
" Criminals also can be as cool as cucumbers ," said Brown with a smile .
" As to what you ' ve done for him ," replied Father Brown , rising and shaking himself in a floppy way , " you ' ve saved him from the electrical chair .
The moment before Greywood Usher had been coming to the conclusion that Father Brown might possibly be mad .
While the bell was still strong and pealing , the voice of Father Brown fell soft but distinct .
" Why , look here , Mr Usher ," said Father Brown quietly , " you said the machine couldn ' t make a mistake ; and in one sense it didn ' t .
But he was just going to tell it you , when "-- and Father Brown looked down at his boots --" when a woman found another name for him ."
Next morning Father Brown appeared with the same demure expression , carrying yet another piece of pink newspaper .
Mr Greenwood Usher lifted his eyes , but Father Brown was gone .
It was , in fact , the face of one with the harmless human name of Brown , formerly priest of Cobhole in Essex , and now working in London .
She was simply and even loosely dressed in light brown sacking stuff ; but she was a lady , and even , on a second glance , a rather needlessly haughty one .
" I haven ' t a notion ," answered Father Brown .
Father Brown took a small book out of his pocket and began to read steadily ; he betrayed no consciousness of the fact that the red - haired lady had left her own table and sat down opposite him .
" No ," said Father Brown , answering her thoughts .
" The wax always spots like that just a little in this weather ," answered Father Brown with entire simplicity ,
observed Brown absent - mindedly .
" I don ' t want to force your confidence by a hair ," said Father Brown , very quietly .
Often he would not trouble to dress for his simple meals ; but pattered about among the corded brown - paper parcels ( which no one else was allowed to touch ) in an old brown dressing - gown .
Father Brown presented him to the lady in his own slight , persuasive style of speech , mentioning his knowledge and sympathy in such cases ; and almost without knowing , the girl was soon reiterating her story to two listeners .
Brown accepted it with some surprise and read on it : " Cab to Wagga Wagga , 379 , Mafeking Avenue , Putney ."
The milk - can told me the servants were all out ; for , of course , Arthur , browsing about in his brown dressing - gown in a brown study , would not hear or answer a bell .
" Not so extraordinary as the answer ," remarked Father Brown rather gloomily .
" That is true again ," said Father Brown , nodding .
" Why shouldn ' t a blackmailer ," asked Brown , in a low voice , " threaten his victim with himself ?
" Well ," observed Brown confidently , " don ' t you think it ' s the best thing she can do to stop outside -- with you to look after her ?
The man whom Father Brown had seen pass the tavern was standing against the wall as if at bay ; unchanged , save that he had taken off his black coat and was wearing a brown dressing - gown .
" We have come ," said Father Brown politely , " to give back this coin to its owner ."
shouted Father Brown , bounding and half falling over a chair ; and , after a wrench or two , Flambeau had the door open .
Across the table the body of the man in the brown dressing - gown lay amid his burst and gaping brown - paper parcels ; out of which poured and rolled , not Roman , but very modern English coins .
asked Father Brown , in the same strange , indulgent tone .
It was a long , low inn , consisting really of a cottage and two barns ; thatched all over with the thatch that looks like brown and grey hair grown before history .
It was even less easy to fix the impression in the case of the man at the right end of the table , who , to say truth , was as commonplace a person as could be seen anywhere , with a round , brown - haired head and a round snub nose , but also clad in clerical black , of a stricter cut .
His lank limbs were clad , I might also say clutched , in very tight grey sleeves and pantaloons ; he had a long , sallow , aquiline face which seemed somehow all the more saturnine because his lantern jaws were imprisoned in his collar and neck - cloth more in the style of the old stock ; and his hair ( which ought to have been dark brown ) was of an odd dim , russet colour which , in conjunction with his yellow face , looked rather purple than red .
My name is Brown ."
" He seems really to believe ," answered the priest called Brown , " that they have left a curse on him ."
" I don ' t know how you know it , Father Brown ," he said , " but you are right .
I ' ve altered him to Mr Brown , a Spiritualist .
I owe it all to the small priest Brown ; he is an extraordinary man .
Father Brown had picked up one of the lemons and was eyeing it with an odd pleasure .
Before he came within earshot , Father Brown had added quite composedly , " Why does he really hide the secret of what he does with the purple wig ?
" Father Brown ," he said , " Doctor Mull informs me that you have come here to make a request .
" To see you take off your wig ," said Father Brown .
" The Cross of Christ be between me and harm ," said Father Brown .
" Yes ," said Father Brown , " that is what he had to hide ."
FATHER BROWN was in no mood for adventures .
But Brown was still rather weak ; he was no very happy sailor ; and though he was never of the sort that either grumbles or breaks down , his spirits did not rise above patience and civility .
All these trivialities Brown heard and saw ; but heard them as a tired man hears a tune in the railway wheels , or saw them as a sick man sees the pattern of his wall - paper .
No one can calculate the turns of mood in convalescence : but Father Brown ' s depression must have had a great deal to do with his mere unfamiliarity with the sea .
This magic clearness and intensity in the colours was further forced on Brown ' s slowly reviving senses by something romantic and even secret in the very form of the landscape .
Beyond this mere look of things there was little for Brown ' s freshening fancy to feed on ; he saw no human beings , except some gipsies trailing along the river bank , with faggots and osiers cut in the forest ; and one sight no longer unconventional , but in such remote parts still uncommon : a dark - haired lady , bare - headed , and paddling her own canoe .
If Father Brown ever attached any importance to either of these , he certainly forgot them at the next turn of the river which brought in sight a singular object .
Father Brown , even when he was mystified , was clever in analysing his own mystification .
" She ' d find a rum sort of thing in the garden ," said Father Brown , " which would not please her Renaissance eye .
" For what other reason ," asked Father Brown , " do you mean that it has been rebuilt ?"
asked Father Brown , as the girl in the canoe paddled off , without showing the least intention of extending her interest from the tower to the yacht , which Fanshaw had already caused to lie alongside the island .
They followed him on to the island , just under the tower , and Father Brown , whether from the mere touch of dry land , or the interest of something on the other bank of the river ( which he stared at very hard for some seconds ), seemed singularly improved in briskness .
Father Brown was , perhaps , a little fanciful in his fatigue , but he almost thought the whole place must be growing larger , as things do in a nightmare .
That is , that while it was ruddy and sanguine , there was a yellow in it that was in no way sickly , but seemed rather to glow like gold apples of the Hesperides -- Father Brown thought he had never seen a figure so expressive of all the romances about the countries of the Sun .
The entrance was flanked with two of those half - featured lumps of stone with holes for eyes that are said to be South Sea idols ; and on the brown oak beam across the doorway were some confused carvings that looked almost as barbaric .
But Father Brown was not likely to notice either the laughter or the astonishment .
" Well ," muttered Father Brown , blinking , " here is the legend of the Spaniard plain enough .
said Father Brown , and jumped down from the little table .
asked Father Brown with a gentle suddenness , pointing to the woods on the left river - bank .
There were , indeed , three antiquated cutlasses in a trophy over the fireplace , and one brown sixteenth - century map with Tritons and little ships dotted about a curly sea .
" Very good wine ," said Father Brown , gravely lifting his glass , " but , as you see , a very bad wine - bibber .
Here he swung round and fixed Father Brown with a face of frightful concentration .
Father Brown smiled .
" Please forgive me for everything ," said Brown in his most sympathetic tone , " including spilling the wine .
Some three hours afterwards Fanshaw , Flambeau and the priest were still dawdling about the garden in the dark ; and it began to dawn on the other two that Father Brown had no intention of going to bed either in the tower or the house .
Father Brown stood ruefully contemplating the decapitated plant .
said Father Brown , looking round in a sort of wonder .
" I mean ," said Father Brown , " that one of the Admiral ' s scientific predictions is coming true tonight .
" The sign of the flaming tower ," said Father Brown , and sent the driving water from his hose into the heart of the red patch .
" This is rather a curious kind of tower ," observed Father Brown , " when it takes to killing people , it always kills people who are somewhere else ."
" You can do no more , I fear ," said Brown in a voice cold with pain .
" Yes ," answered Brown , with his eye on the hose .
The fire hissed and shrieked more and more , like a strangled thing , as it grew narrower and narrower under the flood from the pipe and buckets , but Father Brown still kept his eye on it as he went on speaking :
Father Brown did not answer ; indeed , he did not speak again , save for civilities , till they were all safe round a cigar - box in the cabin of the yacht .
" You thought it was a chart of the Pacific Islands ," answered Brown .
" I was sea - sick ," said Father Brown simply .
He received no answer : Father Brown was asleep .
It did not seem a very appropriate place or time for a holiday , but Father Brown had few holidays , and had to take them when he could , and he always preferred , if possible , to take them in company with his old friend Flambeau , ex - criminal and ex - detective .
Half a mile farther on Father Brown was puzzled first by little labyrinths of flowerless flower - pots , covered with the low , flat , quiet - coloured plants that look less like a garden than a tessellated pavement , between weak curly paths studded with seats with curly backs .
" I suppose ," said Father Brown , turning up his coat - collar and drawing a woollen scarf rather closer round his neck , " that we are approaching a pleasure resort ."
" Yes ," said Father Brown .
For some reason or other the platform had given way under Father Brown , and the unfortunate little man had dropped through to the level of the parade .
" Come along ," cried Flambeau impatiently , still with his big brown hand extended .
" No ," answered Father Brown .
Father Brown did not answer .
Father Brown jumped off the bandstand , his friend following ; and as they walked in the direction indicated the trees fell away to right and left , and they saw a small , rather flashy hotel , such as is common in resorts -- the hotel of the Saloon Bar rather than the Bar Parlour .
" I ' m afraid we can ' t wait to trouble your hospitality seriously ," said Father Brown .
" I didn ' t mean --" began Father Brown .
But both Flambeau and Father Brown have often confessed that , in all their ( often outrageous ) adventures , nothing had so chilled their blood as that voice of an ogre , sounding suddenly out of a silent and empty inn .
" I rather wonder ," said Father Brown , " that there are so few people about the beach , when this big fight is coming on after all .
" It was rather dark when I saw him ," began Father Brown , " but he was --"
" I am never surprised ," said Father Brown , " at any work of hell .
Father Brown had his back to him , and in that flash might have fallen dead on his face .
Flambeau had no weapon , but his large brown hands were resting on the end of the long iron seat .
It had hardly been a dignified escape , in spite of the classic model of Anchises , but Father Brown ' s face only wore a broad grin .
" I did meet him in a way ," Brown said , biting his finger rather nervously --" I did really .
" I had hoped he had only a little ," answered Brown in a rather troubled voice , " and I may have been wrong in what I did .
" I ' m not so sure he --" began Brown , and stopped .
" I don ' t think there will be any fight ," replied Father Brown .
The attendant observed that his lordship was very busy , as the fight was coming on soon , but Father Brown had a good - tempered tedium of reiteration for which the official mind is generally not prepared .
" Only a word ," said Father Brown .
" I don ' t know who ' s going to be killed ," replied Father Brown , with a reflective stare .
" I say there will be one thousand nine - hundred and ninety - nine of them left alive when they have seen it ," said Father Brown .
" I consulted a bandstand ," said Father Brown , scratching his head .
"` The only form in which Voodoo --'" began Father Brown , reading aloud .
" My name is Brown ," was the reply .
" Well ," asked Father Brown rubbing his dusty hair up , " what do you think of Leonardo da Vinci ?
" You are quite right , my lord ," answered Brown .
Father Brown shook his head , like a murderer of much riper experience .
For people had found out how fearful and vast and silent was the force of the savage secret society , and by the time Flambeau and Father Brown were leaning on the parade parapet in April , the Black Man meant in England almost what he once meant in Scotland .
" You see , he is really a clever man ," said Father Brown apologetically .
" I think ," said Father Brown , " he would blacken his face ."
Father Brown , also leaning motionless on the parapet , moved one finger for an instant into the direction of the soot - masked niggers singing on the sands .
FATHER BROWN was walking home from Mass on a white weird morning when the mists were slowly lifting -- one of those mornings when the very element of light appears as something mysterious and new .
Father Brown was made of two men .
" Yes ," answered Father Brown ; " I thought I had better look in , in case anything was the matter ."
All this Father Brown absorbed in detail more at leisure .
" This is my friend Father Brown ," he said .
And then to Brown : " I don ' t know whether you ' ve met Colonel Cray of the Royal Artillery ."
Father Brown ' s hand went half - way to his head , with the gesture of a man remembering somebody ' s name .
" Nor I ," said Father Brown faintly .
Father Brown was surprised to see the whole dining - table set out as for a festive meal , with napkins in their rings , and wine - glasses of some six unnecessary shapes set beside every plate .
And now , Father Brown , I am ready to answer your question of whether it was a burglar ."
" A burglar with a bad cold ," observed Father Brown , " that might assist you to trace him in the neighbourhood ."
" I think you once told me ," said Brown , " that he believes some Indian secret society is pursuing him ."
Dust and other discolouring matter shook upwards as he did so ; but Father Brown never observed his own appearance , whatever else he observed .
The only other person he even admitted to be a judge of an omelette was his friend Cray -- and as Brown remembered this , he turned to look for the other officer .
The third item in the group of the cook and the epicure was also known to Father Brown ; it was Audrey Watson , the Major ' s ward and housekeeper ; and at this moment , to judge by her apron , tucked - up sleeves and resolute manner , much more the housekeeper than the ward .
Father Brown gathered , from the course of the conversation , that Cray , the other gourmet , had to leave before the usual lunch - time ; but that Putnam , his host , not to be done out of a final feast with an old crony , had arranged for a special dejeuner to be set out and consumed in the course of the morning , while Audrey and other graver persons were at morning service .
There was nothing in all this that could conceivably concern the tragedy in Miss Watson ' s face ; and by a half conscious instinct , Father Brown turned again to the seeming lunatic grubbing about in the grass .
And indeed , Father Brown , for reasons best known to himself , had lingered much longer than politeness required ; or even , in the ordinary sense , permitted .
" Real madmen ," explained Father Brown , " always encourage their own morbidity .
" You want to be proved wrong ," said Brown .
A door opened silently in the temple wall behind me and a man came out , with a brown face and a black coat .
Cray paused ; and Father Brown unaffectedly sat down on the lawn and began to pick daisies .
Father Brown threw away a daisy - chain he was making , and rose with a wistful look .
Cray introduced him civilly enough , as Dr Oman , but he showed such disfavour in his very face that Brown guessed the two men , whether Audrey knew it or not , were rivals .
But Father Brown had to tell himself sharply that one should be in charity even with those who wax their pointed beards , who have small gloved hands , and who speak with perfectly modulated voices .
" I hope it was not in the Cannibal Islands ," said Brown , " that he learnt the art of cookery ."
Cray slipped upstairs to change ; Dr Oman and Miss Watson betook themselves solemnly down the street , with a string of other churchgoers ; but Father Brown noticed that the doctor twice looked back and scrutinized the house ; and even came back to the corner of the street to look at it again .
Father Brown , touching other people , was as sensitive as a barometer ; but today he seemed about as sensitive as a rhinoceros .
" I know ," replied Brown , rather vaguely .
And vinegar "-- and producing that condiment -- " haven ' t I heard something about vinegar and brown paper ?
" Oh , there are sermons in a cruet - stand , too ," said Father Brown , quite gravely .
Father Brown , who was making the salad , tipped two spoonfuls of the mustard into the tumbler of water beside him ; stood up and said in a new , loud and sudden voice --" Drink that !"
" Pretty near ," said Brown , with the shadow of a smile ; for the emetic had very suddenly taken effect .
" And remembered that there were emetics in the cruet - stand ," said Father Brown .
" Father Brown ?"
Father Brown returned her gaze with a long , grave stare , and then nodded , yet more gravely .
" Father Brown ," said the lady , " I am going to tell you all I know , but I want you to do me a favour first .
Father Brown looked honestly embarrassed , and passed his hand across his forehead .
" And the trivial thing was this ," said Brown .
" There is only one enemy ," said Father Brown , " whom it is easier to kill with a dagger than a sword ."
" He died ," said Father Brown , " for love of you ?"
said Brown patiently .
Father Brown only nodded , and seemed still to be listening ; he differed from most detectives in fact and fiction in a small point -- he never pretended not to understand when he understood perfectly well .
" Yes ," said Father Brown ; " I think I begin to understand ."
" And Haman began to tell them ," said Father Brown , " of all the things wherein the king had honoured him ; and he said : ` All these things profit me nothing while I see Mordecai the Jew sitting in the gate .'"
Father Brown started and spun half round like an absurd teetotum .
When Father Brown reached the house with the beehive and the drowsy dog , a small and neat maid - servant showed him into the dining - room , where Boulnois sat reading by a shaded lamp , exactly as his wife described him .
" He has been here for half an hour at least ," thought Father Brown .
" I won ' t keep you long from ` The Bloody Thumb ' or any other catastrophic affairs ," said Father Brown , smiling .
" I know it was a strange crime ," assented Brown in a low voice .
" I understand ," said Father Brown .
That is my crime , Father Brown , and I don ' t know what penance you would inflict for it ."
" Being hanged ," said Father Brown .
The Fairy Tale of Father Brown
It had come under the Prussian hegemony quite late in history -- hardly fifty years before the fine summer day when Flambeau and Father Brown found themselves sitting in its gardens and drinking its beer .
Despite his prosaic appearance and generally practical walk of life , Father Brown was not without a certain streak of romance in his composition , though he generally kept his daydreams to himself , as many children do .
asked Father Brown .
asked Brown in some wonder .
" I know ," said Father Brown .
" Human science can never be quite certain of things like that ," said Father Brown , still looking at the red budding of the branches over his head , " if only because of the difficulty about definition and connotation .
" Which could be quite certain of discovering a toy pistol ," said Father Brown with a smile .
asked Father Brown .
asked Father Brown .
Father Brown ' s smooth brow became suddenly constricted .
cried Brown , frowning more and more , with a quite unusual concentration of curiosity .
Father Brown sat up suddenly .
" They killed him with the sash ," said Brown carefully ; and then , as Flambeau protested : " Yes , yes , I know about the bullet .
" I didn ' t say by his own wish ," replied Father Brown .
Father Brown laughed .
The little pink clouds , that looked rather like sweet - stuff , had floated up to crown the turrets of the gilt gingerbread castle , and the pink baby fingers of the budding trees seemed spreading and stretching to reach them ; the blue sky began to take a bright violet of evening , when Father Brown suddenly spoke again :
" Well ," said Father Brown rising cheerfully " I hope they ' re happy ."
He wore , indeed , the high white collar and satin tie that were the uniform of the occasion ; but out of this collar there sprang a head quite unmanageable and quite unmistakable , a bewildering bush of brown hair and beard that almost obscured the eyes like those of a Skye terrier .
Gogol sat down last , grumbling in his brown beard about gombromise .
With a sharp gesture he motioned them to silence , but he pointed with one gloved finger to a cafe table under a bank of flowering foliage at which sat the Marquis de St . Eustache , his teeth shining in his thick , black beard , and his bold , brown face shadowed by a light yellow straw hat and outlined against the violet sea .
Just so , Syme thought , would the brown - gold face of such a tyrant have shown against the dark green olives and the burning blue .
It ' s the kind of thing that might come in useful any day ," and he gravely tore off one of his swarthy Assyrian brows , bringing about half his brown forehead with it , and politely offered it to the Colonel , who stood crimson and speechless with rage .
Dr . Renard was a beaming , brown - bearded man , a good example of that silent but very busy professional class which France has preserved even more perfectly than England .
There was , indeed , a rank of dim figures running across the road , and they could not be clearly seen ; but far enough in front to catch the accident of the evening light was stalking up and down the unmistakable Dr . Renard , in a white hat , stroking his long brown beard , and holding a revolver in his left hand .
I found him smoking in a twilight room , a room with brown blind down , infinitely more depressing than the genial darkness in which our master lives .
He looked the mysterious ambassador up and down , but he could discover nothing except that the man ' s coat was the exact colour of the purple shadows , and that the man ' s face was the exact colour of the red and brown and golden sky .
It flung the homely effect of firelight over the face of vast forests of grey or brown , and it seemed to fill with warmth even the emptiness of upper night .
But Manchon knew better -- he had now got his head into Felix ' s pocket , and would not be quiet till he had drawn from thence , rustling out of its brown paper , half a cold turkey , which had been missing since morning .
She ran into her father ' s parlour ; but she knew , the moment she saw his face , that it was no time to ask questions ; his pen was across his mouth , and his brown wig pushed oblique upon his contracted forehead .
The wig was always pushed crooked whenever he was in a brown or rather , a black study .
" Their Royal Highnesses the Dukes of Kent and Cumberland , Earl Morton , and General Gwynne , all on horseback , dressed in the Windsor uniform , except the Prince of Wales , who wore a suit of dark blue , and a brown surtout over .
Here , my good lad , take your parcel , and sheer off ," said the impatient man ; and , as he spoke , he took up the parcel of seeds from the counter , as the shopman stooped to look for a sheet of thick brown paper and packthread to tie it up .
His face was deeply brown and burnt , making his white teeth dazzling by the contrast ; while in the deep shadows of his eyes floated some reminiscences that did not seem to give him much joy .
So gathering up the shavings with another grin , and throwing them into the great stove in the middle of the room , he went about his business , and left me in a brown study .
" May be not ," taking out a stick and whittling a toothpick , " but I rayther guess you ' ll be done BROWN if that ere harpooneer hears you a slanderin ' his head ."
They were nearly all whalemen ; chief mates , and second mates , and third mates , and sea carpenters , and sea coopers , and sea blacksmiths , and harpooneers , and ship keepers ; a brown and brawny company , with bosky beards ; an unshorn , shaggy set , all wearing monkey jackets for morning gowns .
He paused a little ; then kneeling in the pulpit ' s bows , folded his large brown hands across his chest , uplifted his closed eyes , and offered a prayer so deeply devout that he seemed kneeling and praying at the bottom of the sea .
We had lain thus in bed , chatting and napping at short intervals , and Queequeg now and then affectionately throwing his brown tattooed legs over mine , and then drawing them back ; so entirely sociable and free and easy were we ; when , at last , by reason of our confabulations , what little nappishness remained in us altogether departed , and we felt like getting up again , though day - break was yet some way down the future .
There was nothing so very particular , perhaps , about the appearance of the elderly man I saw ; he was brown and brawny , like most old seamen , and heavily rolled up in blue pilot - cloth , cut in the Quaker style ; only there was a fine and almost microscopic net - work of the minutest wrinkles interlacing round his eyes , which must have arisen from his continual sailings in many hard gales , and always looking to windward ;-- for this causes the muscles about the eyes to become pursed together .
Among the Dutch whalemen these scraps are called " fritters "; which , indeed , they greatly resemble , being brown and crisp , and smelling something like old Amsterdam housewives ' dough - nuts or oly - cooks , when fresh .
might I here In solitude live savage ; in some glade Obscured , where highest woods , impenetrable To star or sun - light , spread their umbrage broad And brown as evening : Cover me , ye Pines !
6 The soul , Forever and forever -- longer than soil is brown and solid -- longer than water ebbs and flows .
Swiftly arose and spread around me the peace and knowledge that pass all the argument of the earth , And I know that the hand of God is the promise of my own , And I know that the spirit of God is the brother of my own , And that all the men ever born are also my brothers , and the women my sisters and lovers , And that a kelson of the creation is love , And limitless are leaves stiff or drooping in the fields , And brown ants in the little wells beneath them , And mossy scabs of the worm fence , heap ' d stones , elder , mullein and poke - weed .
9 The big doors of the country barn stand open and ready , The dried grass of the harvest - time loads the slow - drawn wagon , The clear light plays on the brown gray and green intertinged , The armfuls are pack ' d to the sagging mow .
By the city ' s quadrangular houses -- in log huts , camping with lumber - men , Along the ruts of the turnpike , along the dry gulch and rivulet bed , Weeding my onion - patch or hosing rows of carrots and parsnips , crossing savannas , trailing in forests , Prospecting , gold - digging , girdling the trees of a new purchase , Scorch ' d ankle - deep by the hot sand , hauling my boat down the shallow river , Where the panther walks to and fro on a limb overhead , where the buck turns furiously at the hunter , Where the rattlesnake suns his flabby length on a rock , where the otter is feeding on fish , Where the alligator in his tough pimples sleeps by the bayou , Where the black bear is searching for roots or honey , where the beaver pats the mud with his paddle - shaped tall ; Over the growing sugar , over the yellow - flower ' d cotton plant , over the rice in its low moist field , Over the sharp - peak ' d farm house , with its scallop ' d scum and slender shoots from the gutters , Over the western persimmon , over the long - leav ' d corn , over the delicate blue - flower flax , Over the white and brown buckwheat , a hummer and buzzer there with the rest , Over the dusky green of the rye as it ripples and shades in the breeze ; Scaling mountains , pulling myself cautiously up , holding on by low scragged limbs , Walking the path worn in the grass and beat through the leaves of the brush , Where the quail is whistling betwixt the woods and the wheat - lot , Where the bat flies in the Seventh - month eve , where the great goldbug drops through the dark , Where the brook puts out of the roots of the old tree and flows to the meadow , Where cattle stand and shake away flies with the tremulous shuddering of their hides , Where the cheese - cloth hangs in the kitchen , where andirons straddle the hearth - slab , where cobwebs fall in festoons from the rafters ; Where trip - hammers crash , where the press is whirling its cylinders , Wherever the human heart beats with terrible throes under its ribs , Where the pear - shaped balloon is floating aloft , ( floating in it myself and looking composedly down ,) Where the life - car is drawn on the slip - noose , where the heat hatches pale - green eggs in the dented sand , Where the she - whale swims with her calf and never forsakes it , Where the steam - ship trails hind - ways its long pennant of smoke , Where the fin of the shark cuts like a black chip out of the water , Where the half - burn ' d brig is riding on unknown currents , Where shells grow to her slimy deck , where the dead are corrupting below ; Where the dense - starr ' d flag is borne at the head of the regiments , Approaching Manhattan up by the long - stretching island , Under Niagara , the cataract falling like a veil over my countenance , Upon a door - step , upon the horse - block of hard wood outside , Upon the race - course , or enjoying picnics or jigs or a good game of base - ball , At he - festivals , with blackguard gibes , ironical license , bull - dances , drinking , laughter , At the cider - mill tasting the sweets of the brown mash , sucking the juice through a straw , At apple - peelings wanting kisses for all the red fruit I find , At musters , beach - parties , friendly bees , huskings , house - raisings ; Where the mocking - bird sounds his delicious gurgles , cackles , screams , weeps , Where the hay - rick stands in the barn - yard , where the dry - stalks are scatter ' d , where the brood - cow waits in the hovel , Where the bull advances to do his masculine work , where the stud to the mare , where the cock is treading the hen , Where the heifers browse , where geese nip their food with short jerks , Where sun - down shadows lengthen over the limitless and lonesome prairie , Where herds of buffalo make a crawling spread of the square miles far and near , Where the humming - bird shimmers , where the neck of the long - lived swan is curving and winding , Where the laughing - gull scoots by the shore , where she laughs her near - human laugh , Where bee - hives range on a gray bench in the garden half hid by the high weeds , Where band - neck ' d partridges roost in a ring on the ground with their heads out , Where burial coaches enter the arch ' d gates of a cemetery , Where winter wolves bark amid wastes of snow and icicled trees , Where the yellow - crown ' d heron comes to the edge of the marsh at night and feeds upon small crabs , Where the splash of swimmers and divers cools the warm noon , Where the katy - did works her chromatic reed on the walnut - tree over the well , Through patches of citrons and cucumbers with silver - wired leaves , Through the salt - lick or orange glade , or under conical firs , Through the gymnasium , through the curtain ' d saloon , through the office or public hall ; Pleas ' d with the native and pleas ' d with the foreign , pleas ' d with the new and old , Pleas ' d with the homely woman as well as the handsome , Pleas ' d with the quakeress as she puts off her bonnet and talks melodiously , Pleas ' d with the tune of the choir of the whitewash ' d church , Pleas ' d with the earnest words of the sweating Methodist preacher , impress ' d seriously at the camp - meeting ; Looking in at the shop - windows of Broadway the whole forenoon , flatting the flesh of my nose on the thick plate glass , Wandering the same afternoon with my face turn ' d up to the clouds , or down a lane or along the beach , My right and left arms round the sides of two friends , and I in the middle ; Coming home with the silent and dark - cheek ' d bush - boy , ( behind me he rides at the drape of the day ,) Far from the settlements studying the print of animals ' feet , or the moccasin print , By the cot in the hospital reaching lemonade to a feverish patient , Nigh the coffin ' d corpse when all is still , examining with a candle ; Voyaging to every port to dicker and adventure , Hurrying with the modern crowd as eager and fickle as any , Hot toward one I hate , ready in my madness to knife him , Solitary at midnight in my back yard , my thoughts gone from me a long while , Walking the old hills of Judaea with the beautiful gentle God by my side , Speeding through space , speeding through heaven and the stars , Speeding amid the seven satellites and the broad ring , and the diameter of eighty thousand miles , Speeding with tail ' d meteors , throwing fire - balls like the rest , Carrying the crescent child that carries its own full mother in its belly , Storming , enjoying , planning , loving , cautioning , Backing and filling , appearing and disappearing , I tread day and night such roads .
This man was a wonderful vigor , calmness , beauty of person , The shape of his head , the pale yellow and white of his hair and beard , the immeasurable meaning of his black eyes , the richness and breadth of his manners , These I used to go and visit him to see , he was wise also , He was six feet tall , he was over eighty years old , his sons were massive , clean , bearded , tan - faced , handsome , They and his daughters loved him , all who saw him loved him , They did not love him by allowance , they loved him with personal love , He drank water only , the blood show ' d like scarlet through the clear - brown skin of his face , He was a frequent gunner and fisher , he sail ' d his boat himself , he had a fine one presented to him by a ship - joiner , he had fowling - pieces presented to him by men that loved him , When he went with his five sons and many grand - sons to hunt or fish , you would pick him out as the most beautiful and vigorous of the gang , You would wish long and long to be with him , you would wish to sit by him in the boat that you and he might touch each other .
Behold this swarthy face , these gray eyes , This beard , the white wool unclipt upon my neck , My brown hands and the silent manner of me without charm ; Yet comes one a Manhattanese and ever at parting kisses me lightly on the lips with robust love , And I on the crossing of the street or on the ship ' s deck give a kiss in return , We observe that salute of American comrades land and sea , We are those two natural and nonchalant persons .
1 Afoot and light - hearted I take to the open road , Healthy , free , the world before me , The long brown path before me leading wherever I choose .
Another time mackerel - taking , Voracious , mad for the hook , near the surface , they seem to fill the water for miles ; Another time fishing for rock - fish in Chesapeake bay , I one of the brown - faced crew ; Another time trailing for blue - fish off Paumanok , I stand with braced body , My left foot is on the gunwale , my right arm throws far out the coils of slender rope , In sight around me the quick veering and darting of fifty skiffs , my companions .
Or the brown land and the blue sea for maps and charts ?
Once Paumanok , When the lilac - scent was in the air and Fifth - month grass was growing , Up this seashore in some briers , Two feather ' d guests from Alabama , two together , And their nest , and four light - green eggs spotted with brown , And every day the he - bird to and fro near at hand , And every day the she - bird crouch ' d on her nest , silent , with bright eyes , And every day I , a curious boy , never too close , never disturbing them , Cautiously peering , absorbing , translating .
What is that dusky spot in your brown yellow ?
O brown halo in the sky near the moon , drooping upon the sea !
how I could hug them , with their brown faces and their clothes and knapsacks cover ' d with dust !)
No longer let our children deem us riches and peace alone , We may be terror and carnage , and are so now , Not now are we any one of these spacious and haughty States , ( nor any five , nor ten ,) Nor market nor depot we , nor money - bank in the city , But these and all , and the brown and spreading land , and the mines below , are ours , And the shores of the sea are ours , and the rivers great and small , And the fields they moisten , and the crops and the fruits are ours , Bays and channels and ships sailing in and out are ours -- while we over all , Over the area spread below , the three or four millions of square miles , the capitals , The forty millions of people ,-- O bard !
A line in long array where they wind betwixt green islands , They take a serpentine course , their arms flash in the sun -- hark to the musical clank , Behold the silvery river , in it the splashing horses loitering stop to drink , Behold the brown - faced men , each group , each person a picture , the negligent rest on the saddles , Some emerge on the opposite bank , others are just entering the ford -- while , Scarlet and blue and snowy white , The guidon flags flutter gayly in the wind .
5 Over the breast of the spring , the land , amid cities , Amid lanes and through old woods , where lately the violets peep ' d from the ground , spotting the gray debris , Amid the grass in the fields each side of the lanes , passing the endless grass , Passing the yellow - spear ' d wheat , every grain from its shroud in the dark - brown fields uprisen , Passing the apple - tree blows of white and pink in the orchards , Carrying a corpse to where it shall rest in the grave , Night and day journeys a coffin .
13 Sing on , sing on you gray - brown bird , Sing from the swamps , the recesses , pour your chant from the bushes , Limitless out of the dusk , out of the cedars and pines .
And the singer so shy to the rest receiv ' d me , The gray - brown bird I know receiv ' d us comrades three , And he sang the carol of death , and a verse for him I love .
15 To the tally of my soul , Loud and strong kept up the gray - brown bird , With pure deliberate notes spreading filling the night .
Yet each to keep and all , retrievements out of the night , The song , the wondrous chant of the gray - brown bird , And the tallying chant , the echo arous ' d in my soul , With the lustrous and drooping star with the countenance full of woe , With the holders holding my hand nearing the call of the bird , Comrades mine and I in the midst , and their memory ever to keep , for the dead I loved so well , For the sweetest , wisest soul of all my days and lands -- and this for his dear sake , Lilac and star and bird twined with the chant of my soul , There in the fragrant pines and the cedars dusk and dim .
O earth that hast no voice , confide to me a voice , O harvest of my lands -- O boundless summer growths , O lavish brown parturient earth -- O infinite teeming womb , A song to narrate thee .
The streets themselves and the facades of houses , and goods in the windows , Vehicles , teams , the heavy - plank ' d wharves , the huge crossing at the ferries , The village on the highland seen from afar at sunset , the river between , Shadows , aureola and mist , the light falling on roofs and gables of white or brown two miles off , The schooner near by sleepily dropping down the tide , the little boat slack - tow ' d astern , The hurrying tumbling waves , quick - broken crests , slapping , The strata of color ' d clouds , the long bar of maroon - tint away solitary by itself , the spread of purity it lies motionless in , The horizon ' s edge , the flying sea - crow , the fragrance of salt marsh and shore mud , These became part of that child who went forth every day , and who now goes , and will always go forth every day .
Warble me now for joy of lilac - time , ( returning in reminiscence ,) Sort me O tongue and lips for Nature ' s sake , souvenirs of earliest summer , Gather the welcome signs , ( as children with pebbles or stringing shells ,) Put in April and May , the hylas croaking in the ponds , the elastic air , Bees , butterflies , the sparrow with its simple notes , Blue - bird and darting swallow , nor forget the high - hole flashing his golden wings , The tranquil sunny haze , the clinging smoke , the vapor , Shimmer of waters with fish in them , the cerulean above , All that is jocund and sparkling , the brooks running , The maple woods , the crisp February days and the sugar - making , The robin where he hops , bright - eyed , brown - breasted , With musical clear call at sunrise , and again at sunset , Or flitting among the trees of the apple - orchard , building the nest of his mate , The melted snow of March , the willow sending forth its yellow - green sprouts , For spring - time is here !
3 I see a beautiful gigantic swimmer swimming naked through the eddies of the sea , His brown hair lies close and even to his head , he strikes out with courageous arms , he urges himself with his legs , I see his white body , I see his undaunted eyes , I hate the swift - running eddies that would dash him head - foremost on the rocks .
1 Chanting the square deific , out of the One advancing , out of the sides , Out of the old and new , out of the square entirely divine , Solid , four - sided , ( all the sides needed ,) from this side Jehovah am I , Old Brahm I , and I Saturnius am ; Not Time affects me -- I am Time , old , modern as any , Unpersuadable , relentless , executing righteous judgments , As the Earth , the Father , the brown old Kronos , with laws , Aged beyond computation , yet never new , ever with those mighty laws rolling , Relentless I forgive no man -- whoever sins dies -- I will have that man ' s life ; Therefore let none expect mercy -- have the seasons , gravitation , the appointed days , mercy ?
Now I see what there is in a name , a word , liquid , sane , unruly , musical , self - sufficient , I see that the word of my city is that word from of old , Because I see that word nested in nests of water - bays , superb , Rich , hemm ' d thick all around with sailships and steamships , an island sixteen miles long , solid - founded , Numberless crowded streets , high growths of iron , slender , strong , light , splendidly uprising toward clear skies , Tides swift and ample , well - loved by me , toward sundown , The flowing sea - currents , the little islands , larger adjoining islands , the heights , the villas , The countless masts , the white shore - steamers , the lighters , the ferry - boats , the black sea - steamers well - model ' d , The down - town streets , the jobbers ' houses of business , the houses of business of the ship - merchants and money - brokers , the river - streets , Immigrants arriving , fifteen or twenty thousand in a week , The carts hauling goods , the manly race of drivers of horses , the brown - faced sailors , The summer air , the bright sun shining , and the sailing clouds aloft , The winter snows , the sleigh - bells , the broken ice in the river , passing along up or down with the flood - tide or ebb - tide , The mechanics of the city , the masters , well - form ' d , beautiful - faced , looking you straight in the eyes , Trottoirs throng ' d , vehicles , Broadway , the women , the shops and shows , A million people -- manners free and superb -- open voices -- hospitality -- the most courageous and friendly young men , City of hurried and sparkling waters !
Down on the ancient wharf , the sand , I sit , with a new - comer chatting : He shipp ' d as green - hand boy , and sail ' d away , ( took some sudden , vehement notion ;) Since , twenty years and more have circled round and round , While he the globe was circling round and round , -- and now returns : How changed the place -- all the old land - marks gone -- the parents dead ; ( Yes , he comes back to lay in port for good -- to settle -- has a well - fill ' d purse -- no spot will do but this ;) The little boat that scull ' d him from the sloop , now held in leash I see , I hear the slapping waves , the restless keel , the rocking in the sand , I see the sailor kit , the canvas bag , the great box bound with brass , I scan the face all berry - brown and bearded -- the stout - strong frame , Dress ' d in its russet suit of good Scotch cloth : ( Then what the told - out story of those twenty years ?
