There were Mr . Wilkinson ' s cigar - boxes and Mr . Wilkinson ' s dozen of champagne and Mr . Wilkinson ' s tinned salmon and Mr . Wilkinson ' s tinned tongue and Mr . Wilkinson ' s tinned sardines , and every sort of preserved thing that could be seen at the Army and Navy stores .
" I am thinking and you are thinking ," said Turnbull , " that it is damned silly to waste all that champagne ."
" I thought of having lunch up here ," said Turnbull , who had a bottle of champagne in his hand .
The smoke of Mr . Wilkinson ' s cigars went up ceaseless and strong smelling , like a pagan sacrifice ; the golden glories of Mr . Wilkinson ' s champagne rose to their heads and poured out of them in fancies and philosophies .
His long bare neck and sloping shoulders were the shape of a champagne bottle , but that was the only festive thing about him .
He will be rather impatient to get back to his champagne , from which he ran away in such a hurry , when the convict with the gun hove in sight ."
The reason I point it out to you is this : It seems to me that we make a mistake in attacking aristocracy entirely for its champagne and diamonds .
He left with a sense of champagne in his head , which he could not afterwards explain .
But the champagne can really be trusted .
Ah , here comes your champagne !
asked Syme , emptying his champagne glass .
" If in a few moments this table begins to turn round a little , don ' t put it down to your inroads into the champagne .
They were both silent for a measure of moments , and then Syme ' s speech came with a rush , like the sudden foaming of champagne .
I had drunk more champagne than was good for me , and in a flash of folly I decided to see the situation through .
In three long strides he rejoined his companions , and they , who had seen his champagne - inspired attack and listened to his idiotic explanations , were quite startled at the look of him .
It tasted something as I should conceive a royal cutlet from the thigh of Louis le Gros might have tasted , supposing him to have been killed the first day after the venison season , and that particular venison season contemporary with an unusually fine vintage of the vineyards of Champagne .
