8 : 24 Then I separated twelve of the chief of the priests , Sherebiah , Hashabiah , and ten of their brethren with them , 8 : 25 And weighed unto them the silver , and the gold , and the vessels , even the offering of the house of our God , which the king , and his counsellors , and his lords , and all Israel there present , had offered : 8 : 26 I even weighed unto their hand six hundred and fifty talents of silver , and silver vessels an hundred talents , and of gold an hundred talents ; 8 : 27 Also twenty basons of gold , of a thousand drams ; and two vessels of fine copper , precious as gold .
And so strong and pitiless was the wind that it whipped away fragments of red - flowering bushes or of copper beech , and drove them also across the garden , a drift of red leaves , like the leaves of autumn , as in parody of the red and driven rags of cloud .
Shards and shreds of copper cloud split off continually and floated by themselves , and for some reason the truculent eye of Turnbull was attracted to one of these careering cloudlets , which seemed to him to career in an exaggerated manner .
The copper cloud was tumbling down towards the earth , like some gigantic leaf from the copper beeches .
And as it came nearer it was evident , first , that it was not a cloud , and , second , that it was not itself of the colour of copper ; only , being burnished like a mirror , it had reflected the red - brown colours of the burning clouds .
He had a carved smile on his face , of copper flesh and ivory teeth ; but I think the most hateful thing about him was that he was in European dress .
The bronze or copper of it had grown green with the eating airs of that exalted place , and Otto had instantly the thought , " Even if they had arms , they must be rusted by now ."
you can see the copper through it quite plain .
" The buyers keep a sharp look out to see that they have enough for their little piece of copper ; and the Lilliputian tradesmen act with no less caution as the exigencies of the case may require , to prevent his being cheated out of a morsel ."
There , take this copper - pump , and hail ' em through it .
An intense copper calm , like a universal yellow lotus , was more and more unfolding its noiseless measureless leaves upon the sea .
Almost in the same instant , with a thunder - boom , the enormous mass dropped into the sea , like Niagara ' s Table - Rock into the whirlpool ; the suddenly relieved hull rolled away from it , to far down her glittering copper ; and all caught their breath , as half swinging -- now over the sailors ' heads , and now over the water -- Daggoo , through a thick mist of spray , was dimly beheld clinging to the pendulous tackles , while poor , buried - alive Tashtego was sinking utterly down to the bottom of the sea !
Drawing across her bow , he perceived that in accordance with the fanciful French taste , the upper part of her stem - piece was carved in the likeness of a huge drooping stalk , was painted green , and for thorns had copper spikes projecting from it here and there ; the whole terminating in a symmetrical folded bulb of a bright red colour .
See with what entire freedom the whaleman takes his handful of lamps -- often but old bottles and vials , though -- to the copper cooler at the try - works , and replenishes them there , as mugs of ale at a vat .
And though now nailed amidst all the rustiness of iron bolts and the verdigris of copper spikes , yet , untouchable and immaculate to any foulness , it still preserved its Quito glow .
But chancing to slip with his ivory heel , he saw the crushed copper sight - tubes of the quadrant he had the day before dashed to the deck .
2 Welcome are all earth ' s lands , each for its kind , Welcome are lands of pine and oak , Welcome are lands of the lemon and fig , Welcome are lands of gold , Welcome are lands of wheat and maize , welcome those of the grape , Welcome are lands of sugar and rice , Welcome the cotton - lands , welcome those of the white potato and sweet potato , Welcome are mountains , flats , sands , forests , prairies , Welcome the rich borders of rivers , table - lands , openings , Welcome the measureless grazing - lands , welcome the teeming soil of orchards , flax , honey , hemp ; Welcome just as much the other more hard - faced lands , Lands rich as lands of gold or wheat and fruit lands , Lands of mines , lands of the manly and rugged ores , Lands of coal , copper , lead , tin , zinc , Lands of iron -- lands of the make of the axe .
