The plan of a drain , the change of a fence , the felling of a tree , and the destination of every acre for wheat , turnips , or spring corn , was entered into with as much equality of interest by John , as his cooler manners rendered possible ; and if his willing brother ever left him any thing to inquire about , his inquiries even approached a tone of eagerness .
27 : 27 And he came near , and kissed him : and he smelled the smell of his raiment , and blessed him , and said , See , the smell of my son is as the smell of a field which the LORD hath blessed : 27 : 28 Therefore God give thee of the dew of heaven , and the fatness of the earth , and plenty of corn and wine : 27 : 29 Let people serve thee , and nations bow down to thee : be lord over thy brethren , and let thy mother ' s sons bow down to thee : cursed be every one that curseth thee , and blessed be he that blesseth thee .
27 : 37 And Isaac answered and said unto Esau , Behold , I have made him thy lord , and all his brethren have I given to him for servants ; and with corn and wine have I sustained him : and what shall I do now unto thee , my son ?
41 : 5 And he slept and dreamed the second time : and , behold , seven ears of corn came up upon one stalk , rank and good .
41 : 35 And let them gather all the food of those good years that come , and lay up corn under the hand of Pharaoh , and let them keep food in the cities .
41 : 49 And Joseph gathered corn as the sand of the sea , very much , until he left numbering ; for it was without number .
41 : 57 And all countries came into Egypt to Joseph for to buy corn ; because that the famine was so sore in all lands .
42 : 1 Now when Jacob saw that there was corn in Egypt , Jacob said unto his sons , Why do ye look one upon another ?
42 : 2 And he said , Behold , I have heard that there is corn in Egypt : get you down thither , and buy for us from thence ; that we may live , and not die .
42 : 3 And Joseph ' s ten brethren went down to buy corn in Egypt .
42 : 5 And the sons of Israel came to buy corn among those that came : for the famine was in the land of Canaan .
42 : 18 And Joseph said unto them the third day , This do , and live ; for I fear God : 42 : 19 If ye be true men , let one of your brethren be bound in the house of your prison : go ye , carry corn for the famine of your houses : 42 : 20 But bring your youngest brother unto me ; so shall your words be verified , and ye shall not die .
42 : 25 Then Joseph commanded to fill their sacks with corn , and to restore every man ' s money into his sack , and to give them provision for the way : and thus did he unto them .
42 : 26 And they laded their asses with the corn , and departed thence .
43 : 2 And it came to pass , when they had eaten up the corn which they had brought out of Egypt , their father said unto them , Go again , buy us a little food .
44 : 2 And put my cup , the silver cup , in the sack ' s mouth of the youngest , and his corn money .
45 : 23 And to his father he sent after this manner ; ten asses laden with the good things of Egypt , and ten she asses laden with corn and bread and meat for his father by the way .
47 : 14 And Joseph gathered up all the money that was found in the land of Egypt , and in the land of Canaan , for the corn which they bought : and Joseph brought the money into Pharaoh ' s house .
22 : 6 If fire break out , and catch in thorns , so that the stacks of corn , or the standing corn , or the field , be consumed therewith ; he that kindled the fire shall surely make restitution .
2 : 14 And if thou offer a meat offering of thy firstfruits unto the LORD , thou shalt offer for the meat offering of thy firstfruits green ears of corn dried by the fire , even corn beaten out of full ears .
2 : 16 And the priest shall burn the memorial of it , part of the beaten corn thereof , and part of the oil thereof , with all the frankincense thereof : it is an offering made by fire unto the LORD .
23 : 14 And ye shall eat neither bread , nor parched corn , nor green ears , until the selfsame day that ye have brought an offering unto your God : it shall be a statute for ever throughout your generations in all your dwellings .
18 : 27 And this your heave offering shall be reckoned unto you , as though it were the corn of the threshingfloor , and as the fulness of the winepress .
7 : 12 Wherefore it shall come to pass , if ye hearken to these judgments , and keep , and do them , that the LORD thy God shall keep unto thee the covenant and the mercy which he sware unto thy fathers : 7 : 13 And he will love thee , and bless thee , and multiply thee : he will also bless the fruit of thy womb , and the fruit of thy land , thy corn , and thy wine , and thine oil , the increase of thy kine , and the flocks of thy sheep , in the land which he sware unto thy fathers to give thee .
11 : 13 And it shall come to pass , if ye shall hearken diligently unto my commandments which I command you this day , to love the LORD your God , and to serve him with all your heart and with all your soul , 11 : 14 That I will give you the rain of your land in his due season , the first rain and the latter rain , that thou mayest gather in thy corn , and thy wine , and thine oil .
12 : 17 Thou mayest not eat within thy gates the tithe of thy corn , or of thy wine , or of thy oil , or the firstlings of thy herds or of thy flock , nor any of thy vows which thou vowest , nor thy freewill offerings , or heave offering of thine hand : 12 : 18 But thou must eat them before the LORD thy God in the place which the LORD thy God shall choose , thou , and thy son , and thy daughter , and thy manservant , and thy maidservant , and the Levite that is within thy gates : and thou shalt rejoice before the LORD thy God in all that thou puttest thine hands unto .
14 : 23 And thou shalt eat before the LORD thy God , in the place which he shall choose to place his name there , the tithe of thy corn , of thy wine , and of thine oil , and the firstlings of thy herds and of thy flocks ; that thou mayest learn to fear the LORD thy God always .
16 : 9 Seven weeks shalt thou number unto thee : begin to number the seven weeks from such time as thou beginnest to put the sickle to the corn .
16 : 13 Thou shalt observe the feast of tabernacles seven days , after that thou hast gathered in thy corn and thy wine : 16 : 14 And thou shalt rejoice in thy feast , thou , and thy son , and thy daughter , and thy manservant , and thy maidservant , and the Levite , the stranger , and the fatherless , and the widow , that are within thy gates .
18 : 4 The firstfruit also of thy corn , of thy wine , and of thine oil , and the first of the fleece of thy sheep , shalt thou give him .
23 : 25 When thou comest into the standing corn of thy neighbour , then thou mayest pluck the ears with thine hand ; but thou shalt not move a sickle unto thy neighbour ' s standing corn .
25 : 4 Thou shalt not muzzle the ox when he treadeth out the corn .
28 : 49 The LORD shall bring a nation against thee from far , from the end of the earth , as swift as the eagle flieth ; a nation whose tongue thou shalt not understand ; 28 : 50 A nation of fierce countenance , which shall not regard the person of the old , nor shew favour to the young : 28 : 51 And he shall eat the fruit of thy cattle , and the fruit of thy land , until thou be destroyed : which also shall not leave thee either corn , wine , or oil , or the increase of thy kine , or flocks of thy sheep , until he have destroyed thee .
33 : 28 Israel then shall dwell in safety alone : the fountain of Jacob shall be upon a land of corn and wine ; also his heavens shall drop down dew .
5 : 11 And they did eat of the old corn of the land on the morrow after the passover , unleavened cakes , and parched corn in the selfsame day .
5 : 12 And the manna ceased on the morrow after they had eaten of the old corn of the land ; neither had the children of Israel manna any more ; but they did eat of the fruit of the land of Canaan that year .
15 : 5 And when he had set the brands on fire , he let them go into the standing corn of the Philistines , and burnt up both the shocks , and also the standing corn , with the vineyards and olives .
2 : 2 And Ruth the Moabitess said unto Naomi , Let me now go to the field , and glean ears of corn after him in whose sight I shall find grace .
And she sat beside the reapers : and he reached her parched corn , and she did eat , and was sufficed , and left .
3 : 7 And when Boaz had eaten and drunk , and his heart was merry , he went to lie down at the end of the heap of corn : and she came softly , and uncovered his feet , and laid her down .
17 : 17 And Jesse said unto David his son , Take now for thy brethren an ephah of this parched corn , and these ten loaves , and run to the camp of thy brethren ; 17 : 18 And carry these ten cheeses unto the captain of their thousand , and look how thy brethren fare , and take their pledge .
25 : 18 Then Abigail made haste , and took two hundred loaves , and two bottles of wine , and five sheep ready dressed , and five measures of parched corn , and an hundred clusters of raisins , and two hundred cakes of figs , and laid them on asses .
17 : 19 And the woman took and spread a covering over the well ' s mouth , and spread ground corn thereon ; and the thing was not known .
17 : 27 And it came to pass , when David was come to Mahanaim , that Shobi the son of Nahash of Rabbah of the children of Ammon , and Machir the son of Ammiel of Lodebar , and Barzillai the Gileadite of Rogelim , 17 : 28 Brought beds , and basons , and earthen vessels , and wheat , and barley , and flour , and parched corn , and beans , and lentiles , and parched pulse , 17 : 29 And honey , and butter , and sheep , and cheese of kine , for David , and for the people that were with him , to eat : for they said , The people is hungry , and weary , and thirsty , in the wilderness .
4 : 42 And there came a man from Baalshalisha , and brought the man of God bread of the firstfruits , twenty loaves of barley , and full ears of corn in the husk thereof .
18 : 31 Hearken not to Hezekiah : for thus saith the king of Assyria , Make an agreement with me by a present , and come out to me , and then eat ye every man of his own vine , and every one of his fig tree , and drink ye every one the waters of his cistern : 18 : 32 Until I come and take you away to a land like your own land , a land of corn and wine , a land of bread and vineyards , a land of oil olive and of honey , that ye may live , and not die : and hearken not unto Hezekiah , when he persuadeth you , saying , The LORD will deliver us .
19 : 26 Therefore their inhabitants were of small power , they were dismayed and confounded ; they were as the grass of the field , and as the green herb , as the grass on the house tops , and as corn blasted before it be grown up .
31 : 5 And as soon as the commandment came abroad , the children of Israel brought in abundance the firstfruits of corn , wine , and oil , and honey , and of all the increase of the field ; and the tithe of all things brought they in abundantly .
32 : 27 And Hezekiah had exceeding much riches and honour : and he made himself treasuries for silver , and for gold , and for precious stones , and for spices , and for shields , and for all manner of pleasant jewels ; 32 : 28 Storehouses also for the increase of corn , and wine , and oil ; and stalls for all manner of beasts , and cotes for flocks .
5 : 2 For there were that said , We , our sons , and our daughters , are many : therefore we take up corn for them , that we may eat , and live .
5 : 3 Some also there were that said , We have mortgaged our lands , vineyards , and houses , that we might buy corn , because of the dearth .
5 : 10 I likewise , and my brethren , and my servants , might exact of them money and corn : I pray you , let us leave off this usury .
5 : 11 Restore , I pray you , to them , even this day , their lands , their vineyards , their oliveyards , and their houses , also the hundredth part of the money , and of the corn , the wine , and the oil , that ye exact of them .
10 : 39 For the children of Israel and the children of Levi shall bring the offering of the corn , of the new wine , and the oil , unto the chambers , where are the vessels of the sanctuary , and the priests that minister , and the porters , and the singers : and we will not forsake the house of our God .
13 : 4 And before this , Eliashib the priest , having the oversight of the chamber of the house of our God , was allied unto Tobiah : 13 : 5 And he had prepared for him a great chamber , where aforetime they laid the meat offerings , the frankincense , and the vessels , and the tithes of the corn , the new wine , and the oil , which was commanded to be given to the Levites , and the singers , and the porters ; and the offerings of the priests .
13 : 12 Then brought all Judah the tithe of the corn and the new wine and the oil unto the treasuries .
5 : 26 Thou shalt come to thy grave in a full age , like as a shock of corn cometh in in his season .
24 : 6 They reap every one his corn in the field : and they gather the vintage of the wicked .
24 : 24 They are exalted for a little while , but are gone and brought low ; they are taken out of the way as all other , and cut off as the tops of the ears of corn .
39 : 4 Their young ones are in good liking , they grow up with corn ; they go forth , and return not unto them .
4 : 7 Thou hast put gladness in my heart , more than in the time that their corn and their wine increased .
65 : 9 Thou visitest the earth , and waterest it : thou greatly enrichest it with the river of God , which is full of water : thou preparest them corn , when thou hast so provided for it .
65 : 13 The pastures are clothed with flocks ; the valleys also are covered over with corn ; they shout for joy , they also sing .
72 : 16 There shall be an handful of corn in the earth upon the top of the mountains ; the fruit thereof shall shake like Lebanon : and they of the city shall flourish like grass of the earth .
78 : 24 And had rained down manna upon them to eat , and had given them of the corn of heaven .
11 : 26 He that withholdeth corn , the people shall curse him : but blessing shall be upon the head of him that selleth it .
17 : 5 And it shall be as when the harvestman gathereth the corn , and reapeth the ears with his arm ; and it shall be as he that gathereth ears in the valley of Rephaim .
21 : 10 O my threshing , and the corn of my floor : that which I have heard of the LORD of hosts , the God of Israel , have I declared unto you .
28 : 28 Bread corn is bruised ; because he will not ever be threshing it , nor break it with the wheel of his cart , nor bruise it with his horsemen .
36 : 16 Hearken not to Hezekiah : for thus saith the king of Assyria , Make an agreement with me by a present , and come out to me : and eat ye every one of his vine , and every one of his fig tree , and drink ye every one the waters of his own cistern ; 36 : 17 Until I come and take you away to a land like your own land , a land of corn and wine , a land of bread and vineyards .
37 : 27 Therefore their inhabitants were of small power , they were dismayed and confounded : they were as the grass of the field , and as the green herb , as the grass on the housetops , and as corn blasted before it be grown up .
62 : 8 The LORD hath sworn by his right hand , and by the arm of his strength , Surely I will no more give thy corn to be meat for thine enemies ; and the sons of the stranger shall not drink thy wine , for the which thou hast laboured : 62 : 9 But they that have gathered it shall eat it , and praise the LORD ; and they that have brought it together shall drink it in the courts of my holiness .
2 : 12 They say to their mothers , Where is corn and wine ?
36 : 29 I will also save you from all your uncleannesses : and I will call for the corn , and will increase it , and lay no famine upon you .
2 : 8 For she did not know that I gave her corn , and wine , and oil , and multiplied her silver and gold , which they prepared for Baal .
2 : 9 Therefore will I return , and take away my corn in the time thereof , and my wine in the season thereof , and will recover my wool and my flax given to cover her nakedness .
2 : 21 And it shall come to pass in that day , I will hear , saith the LORD , I will hear the heavens , and they shall hear the earth ; 2 : 22 And the earth shall hear the corn , and the wine , and the oil ; and they shall hear Jezreel .
7 : 14 And they have not cried unto me with their heart , when they howled upon their beds : they assemble themselves for corn and wine , and they rebel against me .
10 : 11 And Ephraim is as an heifer that is taught , and loveth to tread out the corn ; but I passed over upon her fair neck : I will make Ephraim to ride ; Judah shall plow , and Jacob shall break his clods .
14 : 7 They that dwell under his shadow shall return ; they shall revive as the corn , and grow as the vine : the scent thereof shall be as the wine of Lebanon .
1 : 10 The field is wasted , the land mourneth ; for the corn is wasted : the new wine is dried up , the oil languisheth .
1 : 17 The seed is rotten under their clods , the garners are laid desolate , the barns are broken down ; for the corn is withered .
2 : 19 Yea , the LORD will answer and say unto his people , Behold , I will send you corn , and wine , and oil , and ye shall be satisfied therewith : and I will no more make you a reproach among the heathen : 2 : 20 But I will remove far off from you the northern army , and will drive him into a land barren and desolate , with his face toward the east sea , and his hinder part toward the utmost sea , and his stink shall come up , and his ill savour shall come up , because he hath done great things .
8 : 4 Hear this , O ye that swallow up the needy , even to make the poor of the land to fail , 8 : 5 Saying , When will the new moon be gone , that we may sell corn ?
9 : 9 For , lo , I will command , and I will sift the house of Israel among all nations , like as corn is sifted in a sieve , yet shall not the least grain fall upon the earth .
1 : 11 And I called for a drought upon the land , and upon the mountains , and upon the corn , and upon the new wine , and upon the oil , and upon that which the ground bringeth forth , and upon men , and upon cattle , and upon all the labour of the hands .
corn shall make the young men cheerful , and new wine the maids .
12 : 1 At that time Jesus went on the sabbath day through the corn ; and his disciples were an hungred , and began to pluck the ears of corn and to eat .
2 : 23 And it came to pass , that he went through the corn fields on the sabbath day ; and his disciples began , as they went , to pluck the ears of corn .
4 : 28 For the earth bringeth forth fruit of herself ; first the blade , then the ear , after that the full corn in the ear .
6 : 1 And it came to pass on the second sabbath after the first , that he went through the corn fields ; and his disciples plucked the ears of corn , and did eat , rubbing them in their hands .
12 : 24 Verily , verily , I say unto you , Except a corn of wheat fall into the ground and die , it abideth alone : but if it die , it bringeth forth much fruit .
7 : 12 But when Jacob heard that there was corn in Egypt , he sent out our fathers first .
9 : 9 For it is written in the law of Moses , Thou shalt not muzzle the mouth of the ox that treadeth out the corn .
5 : 18 For the scripture saith , Thou shalt not muzzle the ox that treadeth out the corn .
When the corn was ripe the mother Lark watched very carefully to see if there were any sign of the reapers ' coming , for she knew that when they came their sharp knives would cut down the nest and hurt the baby Larks .
The farmer was in the field to - day , and he said , ' The corn is ready to cut ; we must call in the neighbours to help .'
And then he told his son to go out to - night and ask all the neighbours to come and reap the corn to - morrow ."
" Don ' t be frightened ," she said ; " if he waits for his neighbours to reap the corn we shall have plenty of time to move ; tell me what he says to - morrow ."
The farmer came to - day and said , ' The corn is getting too ripe ; we cannot wait for our neighbours ; we must ask our relatives to help us .'
And then he called his son and told him to ask all the uncles and cousins to come to - morrow and cut the corn .
The third night , when the mother Lark came home , the baby Larks said , " Mother , dear , the farmer came to the field to - day , and when he looked at the corn he was quite angry ; he said , ' This will never do !
The corn is getting too ripe ; it ' s no use to wait for our relatives , we shall have to cut this corn ourselves .'
They made the barren land fertile by spreading water from the little streams over it ,-- what we call " irrigating "; and they planted enough corn and grain and vegetables for all the people .
After the brothers had been gone some time , David ' s father longed very much to hear from them , and to know if they were safe ; so he sent for David , from the fields , and said to him , " Take now for thy brothers an ephah of this parched corn , and these ten loaves , and run to the camp , where thy brothers are ; and carry these ten cheeses to the captain of their thousand , and see how thy brothers fare , and bring me word again ."
David rose early in the morning , and left the sheep with a keeper , and took the corn and the loaves and the cheeses , as his father had commanded him , and went to the camp of the Israelites .
They had explained and re - explained the Massacre of St . Bartholomew in little white lanes walled in with standing corn as with walls of gold .
It is like asking if this corn is as yellow as that hill is steep .
Sometimes she saw her in the neat garden raking the beds , or weeding the borders ; sometimes she was kneeling at her beehive with fresh flowers for her bees ; sometimes she was in the poultry yard , scattering corn from her sieve amongst the eager chickens ; and in the evening she was often seated in a little honeysuckle arbour , with a clean , light , three - legged deal table before her , upon which she put her plain work .
cries my jackanapes , and off he gallops him , through the very thick of my corn ; but he got a fall , leaping the ditch out yonder , which pacified me , like , at the minute .
So I should ha ' fell into a passion with him then , to be sure , about my corn ; but his horse had got such a terrible sprain , I couldn ' t say anything to him ; for I was a - pitying the poor animal .
I ' ll pay for the corn I spoiled .
I does not want to be paid for my corn .
Poor Lazarus there , chattering his teeth against the curbstone for his pillow , and shaking off his tatters with his shiverings , he might plug up both ears with rags , and put a corn - cob into his mouth , and yet that would not keep out the tempestuous Euroclydon .
Whether that mattress was stuffed with corn - cobs or broken crockery , there is no telling , but I rolled about a good deal , and could not sleep for a long time .
It is a land of oil , true enough : but not like Canaan ; a land , also , of corn and wine .
Hoe corn when you may , say I .
Nor does it at all diminish the curiousness of this matter , that to many thousands of our rural boys and young men born along its line , the probationary life of the Grand Canal furnishes the sole transition between quietly reaping in a Christian corn - field , and recklessly ploughing the waters of the most barbaric seas .
This second source of Men , while yet but few , And while the dread of judgement past remains Fresh in their minds , fearing the Deity , With some regard to what is just and right Shall lead their lives , and multiply apace ; Labouring the soil , and reaping plenteous crop , Corn , wine , and oil ; and , from the herd or flock , Oft sacrificing bullock , lamb , or kid , With large wine - offerings poured , and sacred feast , Shall spend their days in joy unblamed ; and dwell Long time in peace , by families and tribes , Under paternal rule : till one shall rise Of proud ambitious heart ; who , not content With fair equality , fraternal state , Will arrogate dominion undeserved Over his brethren , and quite dispossess Concord and law of nature from the earth ; Hunting ( and men not beasts shall be his game ) With war , and hostile snare , such as refuse Subjection to his empire tyrannous : A mighty hunter thence he shall be styled Before the Lord ; as in despite of Heaven , Or from Heaven , claiming second sovranty ; And from rebellion shall derive his name , Though of rebellion others he accuse .
In all people I see myself , none more and not one a barley - corn less , And the good or bad I say of myself I say of them .
By the city ' s quadrangular houses -- in log huts , camping with lumber - men , Along the ruts of the turnpike , along the dry gulch and rivulet bed , Weeding my onion - patch or hosing rows of carrots and parsnips , crossing savannas , trailing in forests , Prospecting , gold - digging , girdling the trees of a new purchase , Scorch ' d ankle - deep by the hot sand , hauling my boat down the shallow river , Where the panther walks to and fro on a limb overhead , where the buck turns furiously at the hunter , Where the rattlesnake suns his flabby length on a rock , where the otter is feeding on fish , Where the alligator in his tough pimples sleeps by the bayou , Where the black bear is searching for roots or honey , where the beaver pats the mud with his paddle - shaped tall ; Over the growing sugar , over the yellow - flower ' d cotton plant , over the rice in its low moist field , Over the sharp - peak ' d farm house , with its scallop ' d scum and slender shoots from the gutters , Over the western persimmon , over the long - leav ' d corn , over the delicate blue - flower flax , Over the white and brown buckwheat , a hummer and buzzer there with the rest , Over the dusky green of the rye as it ripples and shades in the breeze ; Scaling mountains , pulling myself cautiously up , holding on by low scragged limbs , Walking the path worn in the grass and beat through the leaves of the brush , Where the quail is whistling betwixt the woods and the wheat - lot , Where the bat flies in the Seventh - month eve , where the great goldbug drops through the dark , Where the brook puts out of the roots of the old tree and flows to the meadow , Where cattle stand and shake away flies with the tremulous shuddering of their hides , Where the cheese - cloth hangs in the kitchen , where andirons straddle the hearth - slab , where cobwebs fall in festoons from the rafters ; Where trip - hammers crash , where the press is whirling its cylinders , Wherever the human heart beats with terrible throes under its ribs , Where the pear - shaped balloon is floating aloft , ( floating in it myself and looking composedly down ,) Where the life - car is drawn on the slip - noose , where the heat hatches pale - green eggs in the dented sand , Where the she - whale swims with her calf and never forsakes it , Where the steam - ship trails hind - ways its long pennant of smoke , Where the fin of the shark cuts like a black chip out of the water , Where the half - burn ' d brig is riding on unknown currents , Where shells grow to her slimy deck , where the dead are corrupting below ; Where the dense - starr ' d flag is borne at the head of the regiments , Approaching Manhattan up by the long - stretching island , Under Niagara , the cataract falling like a veil over my countenance , Upon a door - step , upon the horse - block of hard wood outside , Upon the race - course , or enjoying picnics or jigs or a good game of base - ball , At he - festivals , with blackguard gibes , ironical license , bull - dances , drinking , laughter , At the cider - mill tasting the sweets of the brown mash , sucking the juice through a straw , At apple - peelings wanting kisses for all the red fruit I find , At musters , beach - parties , friendly bees , huskings , house - raisings ; Where the mocking - bird sounds his delicious gurgles , cackles , screams , weeps , Where the hay - rick stands in the barn - yard , where the dry - stalks are scatter ' d , where the brood - cow waits in the hovel , Where the bull advances to do his masculine work , where the stud to the mare , where the cock is treading the hen , Where the heifers browse , where geese nip their food with short jerks , Where sun - down shadows lengthen over the limitless and lonesome prairie , Where herds of buffalo make a crawling spread of the square miles far and near , Where the humming - bird shimmers , where the neck of the long - lived swan is curving and winding , Where the laughing - gull scoots by the shore , where she laughs her near - human laugh , Where bee - hives range on a gray bench in the garden half hid by the high weeds , Where band - neck ' d partridges roost in a ring on the ground with their heads out , Where burial coaches enter the arch ' d gates of a cemetery , Where winter wolves bark amid wastes of snow and icicled trees , Where the yellow - crown ' d heron comes to the edge of the marsh at night and feeds upon small crabs , Where the splash of swimmers and divers cools the warm noon , Where the katy - did works her chromatic reed on the walnut - tree over the well , Through patches of citrons and cucumbers with silver - wired leaves , Through the salt - lick or orange glade , or under conical firs , Through the gymnasium , through the curtain ' d saloon , through the office or public hall ; Pleas ' d with the native and pleas ' d with the foreign , pleas ' d with the new and old , Pleas ' d with the homely woman as well as the handsome , Pleas ' d with the quakeress as she puts off her bonnet and talks melodiously , Pleas ' d with the tune of the choir of the whitewash ' d church , Pleas ' d with the earnest words of the sweating Methodist preacher , impress ' d seriously at the camp - meeting ; Looking in at the shop - windows of Broadway the whole forenoon , flatting the flesh of my nose on the thick plate glass , Wandering the same afternoon with my face turn ' d up to the clouds , or down a lane or along the beach , My right and left arms round the sides of two friends , and I in the middle ; Coming home with the silent and dark - cheek ' d bush - boy , ( behind me he rides at the drape of the day ,) Far from the settlements studying the print of animals ' feet , or the moccasin print , By the cot in the hospital reaching lemonade to a feverish patient , Nigh the coffin ' d corpse when all is still , examining with a candle ; Voyaging to every port to dicker and adventure , Hurrying with the modern crowd as eager and fickle as any , Hot toward one I hate , ready in my madness to knife him , Solitary at midnight in my back yard , my thoughts gone from me a long while , Walking the old hills of Judaea with the beautiful gentle God by my side , Speeding through space , speeding through heaven and the stars , Speeding amid the seven satellites and the broad ring , and the diameter of eighty thousand miles , Speeding with tail ' d meteors , throwing fire - balls like the rest , Carrying the crescent child that carries its own full mother in its belly , Storming , enjoying , planning , loving , cautioning , Backing and filling , appearing and disappearing , I tread day and night such roads .
The sprawl and fulness of babes , the bosoms and heads of women , the folds of their dress , their style as we pass in the street , the contour of their shape downwards , The swimmer naked in the swimming - bath , seen as he swims through the transparent green - shine , or lies with his face up and rolls silently to and from the heave of the water , The bending forward and backward of rowers in row - boats , the horse - man in his saddle , Girls , mothers , house - keepers , in all their performances , The group of laborers seated at noon - time with their open dinner - kettles , and their wives waiting , The female soothing a child , the farmer ' s daughter in the garden or cow - yard , The young fellow hosing corn , the sleigh - driver driving his six horses through the crowd , The wrestle of wrestlers , two apprentice - boys , quite grown , lusty , good - natured , native - born , out on the vacant lot at sundown after work , The coats and caps thrown down , the embrace of love and resistance , The upper - hold and under - hold , the hair rumpled over and blinding the eyes ; The march of firemen in their own costumes , the play of masculine muscle through clean - setting trowsers and waist - straps , The slow return from the fire , the pause when the bell strikes suddenly again , and the listening on the alert , The natural , perfect , varied attitudes , the bent head , the curv ' d neck and the counting ; Such - like I love -- I loosen myself , pass freely , am at the mother ' s breast with the little child , Swim with the swimmers , wrestle with wrestlers , march in line with the firemen , and pause , listen , count .
7 I see the battle - fields of the earth , grass grows upon them and blossoms and corn , I see the tracks of ancient and modern expeditions .
Always Florida ' s green peninsula -- always the priceless delta of Louisiana -- always the cotton - fields of Alabama and Texas , Always California ' s golden hills and hollows , and the silver mountains of New Mexico -- always soft - breath ' d Cuba , Always the vast slope drain ' d by the Southern sea , inseparable with the slopes drain ' d by the Eastern and Western seas , The area the eighty - third year of these States , the three and a half millions of square miles , The eighteen thousand miles of sea - coast and bay - coast on the main , the thirty thousand miles of river navigation , The seven millions of distinct families and the same number of dwellings -- always these , and more , branching forth into numberless branches , Always the free range and diversity -- always the continent of Democracy ; Always the prairies , pastures , forests , vast cities , travelers , Kanada , the snows ; Always these compact lands tied at the hips with the belt stringing the huge oval lakes ; Always the West with strong native persons , the increasing density there , the habitans , friendly , threatening , ironical , scorning invaders ; All sights , South , North , East -- all deeds , promiscuously done at all times , All characters , movements , growths , a few noticed , myriads unnoticed , Through Mannahatta ' s streets I walking , these things gathering , On interior rivers by night in the glare of pine knots , steamboats wooding up , Sunlight by day on the valley of the Susquehanna , and on the valleys of the Potomac and Rappahannock , and the valleys of the Roanoke and Delaware , In their northerly wilds beasts of prey haunting the Adirondacks the hills , or lapping the Saginaw waters to drink , In a lonesome inlet a sheldrake lost from the flock , sitting on the water rocking silently , In farmers ' barns oxen in the stable , their harvest labor done , they rest standing , they are too tired , Afar on arctic ice the she - walrus lying drowsily while her cubs play around , The hawk sailing where men have not yet sail ' d , the farthest polar sea , ripply , crystalline , open , beyond the floes , White drift spooning ahead where the ship in the tempest dashes , On solid land what is done in cities as the bells strike midnight together , In primitive woods the sounds there also sounding , the howl of the wolf , the scream of the panther , and the hoarse bellow of the elk , In winter beneath the hard blue ice of Moosehead lake , in summer visible through the clear waters , the great trout swimming , In lower latitudes in warmer air in the Carolinas the large black buzzard floating slowly high beyond the tree tops , Below , the red cedar festoon ' d with tylandria , the pines and cypresses growing out of the white sand that spreads far and flat , Rude boats descending the big Pedee , climbing plants , parasites with color ' d flowers and berries enveloping huge trees , The waving drapery on the live - oak trailing long and low , noiselessly waved by the wind , The camp of Georgia wagoners just after dark , the supper - fires and the cooking and eating by whites and negroes , Thirty or forty great wagons , the mules , cattle , horses , feeding from troughs , The shadows , gleams , up under the leaves of the old sycamore - trees , the flames with the black smoke from the pitch - pine curling and rising ; Southern fishermen fishing , the sounds and inlets of North Carolina ' s coast , the shad - fishery and the herring - fishery , the large sweep - seines , the windlasses on shore work ' d by horses , the clearing , curing , and packing - houses ; Deep in the forest in piney woods turpentine dropping from the incisions in the trees , there are the turpentine works , There are the negroes at work in good health , the ground in all directions is cover ' d with pine straw ; In Tennessee and Kentucky slaves busy in the coalings , at the forge , by the furnace - blaze , or at the corn - shucking , In Virginia , the planter ' s son returning after a long absence , joyfully welcom ' d and kiss ' d by the aged mulatto nurse , On rivers boatmen safely moor ' d at nightfall in their boats under shelter of high banks , Some of the younger men dance to the sound of the banjo or fiddle , others sit on the gunwale smoking and talking ; Late in the afternoon the mocking - bird , the American mimic , singing in the Great Dismal Swamp , There are the greenish waters , the resinous odor , the plenteous moss , the cypress - tree , and the juniper - tree ; Northward , young men of Mannahatta , the target company from an excursion returning home at evening , the musket - muzzles all bear bunches of flowers presented by women ; Children at play , or on his father ' s lap a young boy fallen asleep , ( how his lips move !
Mark , thy interminable farms , North , South , Thy wealthy daughter - states , Eastern and Western , The varied products of Ohio , Pennsylvania , Missouri , Georgia , Texas , and the rest , Thy limitless crops , grass , wheat , sugar , oil , corn , rice , hemp , hops , Thy barns all fill ' d , the endless freight - train and the bulging store - house , The grapes that ripen on thy vines , the apples in thy orchards , Thy incalculable lumber , beef , pork , potatoes , thy coal , thy gold and silver , The inexhaustible iron in thy mines .
1 Give me the splendid silent sun with all his beams full - dazzling , Give me autumnal fruit ripe and red from the orchard , Give me a field where the unmow ' d grass grows , Give me an arbor , give me the trellis ' d grape , Give me fresh corn and wheat , give me serene - moving animals teaching content , Give me nights perfectly quiet as on high plateaus west of the Mississippi , and I looking up at the stars , Give me odorous at sunrise a garden of beautiful flowers where I can walk undisturb ' d , Give me for marriage a sweet - breath ' d woman of whom I should never tire , Give me a perfect child , give me away aside from the noise of the world a rural domestic life , Give me to warble spontaneous songs recluse by myself , for my own ears only , Give me solitude , give me Nature , give me again O Nature your primal sanities !
2 Keep your splendid silent sun , Keep your woods O Nature , and the quiet places by the woods , Keep your fields of clover and timothy , and your corn - fields and orchards , Keep the blossoming buckwheat fields where the Ninth - month bees hum ; Give me faces and streets -- give me these phantoms incessant and endless along the trottoirs !
12 Lo , body and soul -- this land , My own Manhattan with spires , and the sparkling and hurrying tides , and the ships , The varied and ample land , the South and the North in the light , Ohio ' s shores and flashing Missouri , And ever the far - spreading prairies cover ' d with grass and corn .
The field - sprouts of Fourth - month and Fifth - month became part of him , Winter - grain sprouts and those of the light - yellow corn , and the esculent roots of the garden , And the apple - trees cover ' d with blossoms and the fruit afterward , and wood - berries , and the commonest weeds by the road , And the old drunkard staggering home from the outhouse of the tavern whence he had lately risen , And the schoolmistress that pass ' d on her way to the school , And the friendly boys that pass ' d , and the quarrelsome boys , And the tidy and fresh - cheek ' d girls , and the barefoot negro boy and girl , And all the changes of city and country wherever he went .
3 Ah from a little child , Thou knowest soul how to me all sounds became music , My mother ' s voice in lullaby or hymn , ( The voice , O tender voices , memory ' s loving voices , Last miracle of all , O dearest mother ' s , sister ' s , voices ;) The rain , the growing corn , the breeze among the long - leav ' d corn , The measur ' d sea - surf beating on the sand , The twittering bird , the hawk ' s sharp scream , The wild - fowl ' s notes at night as flying low migrating north or south , The psalm in the country church or mid the clustering trees , the open air camp - meeting , The fiddler in the tavern , the glee , the long - strung sailor - song , The lowing cattle , bleating sheep , the crowing cock at dawn .
The cactus guarded with thorns , the laurel - tree with large white flowers , The range afar , the richness and barrenness , the old woods charged with mistletoe and trailing moss , The piney odor and the gloom , the awful natural stillness , ( here in these dense swamps the freebooter carries his gun , and the fugitive has his conceal ' d hut ;) O the strange fascination of these half - known half - impassable swamps , infested by reptiles , resounding with the bellow of the alligator , the sad noises of the night - owl and the wild - cat , and the whirr of the rattlesnake , The mocking - bird , the American mimic , singing all the forenoon , singing through the moon - lit night , The humming - bird , the wild turkey , the raccoon , the opossum ; A Kentucky corn - field , the tall , graceful , long - leav ' d corn , slender , flapping , bright green , with tassels , with beautiful ears each well - sheath ' d in its husk ; O my heart !
The body , sluggish , aged , cold -- the embers left from earlier fires , The light in the eye grown dim , shall duly flame again ; The sun now low in the west rises for mornings and for noons continual ; To frozen clods ever the spring ' s invisible law returns , With grass and flowers and summer fruits and corn .
Sounds of the winter too , Sunshine upon the mountains -- many a distant strain From cheery railroad train -- from nearer field , barn , house , The whispering air -- even the mute crops , garner ' d apples , corn , Children ' s and women ' s tones -- rhythm of many a farmer and of flail , An old man ' s garrulous lips among the rest , Think not we give out yet , Forth from these snowy hairs we keep up yet the lilt .
