2 : 7 Send me now therefore a man cunning to work in gold , and in silver , and in brass , and in iron , and in purple , and crimson , and blue , and that can skill to grave with the cunning men that are with me in Judah and in Jerusalem , whom David my father did provide .
2 : 13 And now I have sent a cunning man , endued with understanding , of Huram my father ' s , 2 : 14 The son of a woman of the daughters of Dan , and his father was a man of Tyre , skilful to work in gold , and in silver , in brass , in iron , in stone , and in timber , in purple , in blue , and in fine linen , and in crimson ; also to grave any manner of graving , and to find out every device which shall be put to him , with thy cunning men , and with the cunning men of my lord David thy father .
3 : 14 And he made the vail of blue , and purple , and crimson , and fine linen , and wrought cherubims thereon .
1 : 18 Come now , and let us reason together , saith the LORD : though your sins be as scarlet , they shall be as white as snow ; though they be red like crimson , they shall be as wool .
Though thou clothest thyself with crimson , though thou deckest thee with ornaments of gold , though thou rentest thy face with painting , in vain shalt thou make thyself fair ; thy lovers will despise thee , they will seek thy life .
Has found out thy bed Of crimson joy , And his dark secret love Does thy life destroy .
"' See , all my leaves are dark crimson .
Then followed the Knave of Hearts , carrying the King ' s crown on a crimson velvet cushion ; and , last of all this grand procession , came THE KING AND QUEEN OF HEARTS .
The Queen turned crimson with fury , and , after glaring at her for a moment like a wild beast , screamed ' Off with her head !
The gold and green and crimson of its sunset were not in the shapeless clouds but in shapes of cherubim and seraphim , awful human shapes with a passionate plumage .
" I must and will stop this shocking crime ," cried the Tolstoian , crimson in the face .
The crimson seas of the sunset seemed to him like a bursting out of some sacred blood , as if the heart of the world had broken .
Against the heraldic background of sprawling crimson and gold offered him by the expiring sunset , the figure of the man with the stick showed at first merely black and fantastic .
Though the white vapour was still a veil , it was like the gauzy veil of a transformation scene in a pantomime ; for through it there glowed shapeless masses of colour , masses which might be clouds of sunrise or mosaics of gold and crimson , or ladies robed in ruby and emerald draperies .
Purple and crimson rhododendrons rose arrogantly , like rampant heraldic animals against their burning background of laburnum gold .
The masses of rose or rhododendron deepened from crimson to violet .
Major Putnam had managed to slip inside and plunge into a proper shirt and trousers , with a crimson cummerbund , and a light square jacket over all ; thus normally set off , his red festive face seemed bursting with a commonplace cordiality .
Though he saw it there only for a moment , though it was outlandish and incredible in costume , being clad from neck to heel in tight crimson , with glints of gold , yet he knew in one flash of moonlight who it was .
A gaudy , unnatural gold ornament on the arm suddenly reminded Kidd of Romeo and Juliet ; of course the tight crimson suit was part of the play .
It was an enormous crimson lantern , nearly as big as a fireplace , fixed over a small but heavy iron door .
Thus it was that when Gabriel Syme came out again into the crimson light of evening , in his shabby black hat and shabby , lawless cloak , he came out a member of the New Detective Corps for the frustration of the great conspiracy .
In the bright coloured Persian tiles and pictures showing tyrants hunting , you may see just those almond eyes , those blue - black beards , those cruel , crimson lips .
It ' s the kind of thing that might come in useful any day ," and he gravely tore off one of his swarthy Assyrian brows , bringing about half his brown forehead with it , and politely offered it to the Colonel , who stood crimson and speechless with rage .
The slanting sun playing upon this crimson pond in the sea , sent back its reflection into every face , so that they all glowed to each other like red men .
As its name imports , it is of an exceedingly rich , mottled tint , with a bestreaked snowy and golden ground , dotted with spots of the deepest crimson and purple .
It was far down the afternoon ; and when all the spearings of the crimson fight were done : and floating in the lovely sunset sea and sky , sun and whale both stilly died together ; then , such a sweetness and such plaintiveness , such inwreathing orisons curled up in that rosy air , that it almost seemed as if far over from the deep green convent valleys of the Manilla isles , the Spanish land - breeze , wantonly turned sailor , had gone to sea , freighted with these vesper hymns .
Pardon me Iulius , heere was ' t thou bay ' d braue Hart , Heere did ' st thou fall , and heere thy Hunters stand Sign ' d in thy Spoyle , and Crimson ' d in thy Lethee .
Around a palace , loftier , fairer , ampler than any yet , Earth ' s modern wonder , history ' s seven outstripping , High rising tier on tier with glass and iron facades , Gladdening the sun and sky , enhued in cheerfulest hues , Bronze , lilac , robin ' s - egg , marine and crimson , Over whose golden roof shall flaunt , beneath thy banner Freedom , The banners of the States and flags of every land , A brood of lofty , fair , but lesser palaces shall cluster .
Ah my silvery beauty -- ah my woolly white and crimson !
I saw the rich ladies in full dress at the soiree , I heard what the singers were singing so long , Heard who sprang in crimson youth from the white froth and the water - blue .
I see the vast alembic ever working , I see and know the flames that heat the world , The glow , the blush , the beating hearts of lovers , So blissful happy some , and some so silent , dark , and nigh to death ; Love , that is all the earth to lovers -- love , that mocks time and space , Love , that is day and night -- love , that is sun and moon and stars , Love , that is crimson , sumptuous , sick with perfume , No other words but words of love , no other thought but love .
