Emma saw symptoms of it immediately in the expression of her face ; and while paying her own compliments to Mrs . Bates , and appearing to attend to the good old lady ' s replies , she saw her with a sort of anxious parade of mystery fold up a letter which she had apparently been reading aloud to Miss Fairfax , and return it into the purple and gold reticule by her side , saying , with significant nods ,
On one side was a table occupied by some chattering girls , cutting up silk and gold paper ; and on the other were tressels and trays , bending under the weight of brawn and cold pies , where riotous boys were holding high revel ; the whole completed by a roaring Christmas fire , which seemed determined to be heard , in spite of all the noise of the others .
" Perhaps ," said Willoughby , " his observations may have extended to the existence of nabobs , gold mohrs , and palanquins ."
The ivory , the gold , and the pearls , all received their appointment , and the gentleman having named the last day on which his existence could be continued without the possession of the toothpick - case , drew on his gloves with leisurely care , and bestowing another glance on the Miss Dashwoods , but such a one as seemed rather to demand than express admiration , walked off with a happy air of real conceit and affected indifference .
2 : 11 The name of the first is Pison : that is it which compasseth the whole land of Havilah , where there is gold ; 2 : 12 And the gold of that land is good : there is bdellium and the onyx stone .
13 : 2 And Abram was very rich in cattle , in silver , and in gold .
24 : 22 And it came to pass , as the camels had done drinking , that the man took a golden earring of half a shekel weight , and two bracelets for her hands of ten shekels weight of gold ; 24 : 23 And said , Whose daughter art thou ?
24 : 35 And the LORD hath blessed my master greatly ; and he is become great : and he hath given him flocks , and herds , and silver , and gold , and menservants , and maidservants , and camels , and asses .
24 : 53 And the servant brought forth jewels of silver , and jewels of gold , and raiment , and gave them to Rebekah : he gave also to her brother and to her mother precious things .
41 : 42 And Pharaoh took off his ring from his hand , and put it upon Joseph ' s hand , and arrayed him in vestures of fine linen , and put a gold chain about his neck ; 41 : 43 And he made him to ride in the second chariot which he had ; and they cried before him , Bow the knee : and he made him ruler over all the land of Egypt .
God forbid that thy servants should do according to this thing : 44 : 8 Behold , the money , which we found in our sacks ' mouths , we brought again unto thee out of the land of Canaan : how then should we steal out of thy lord ' s house silver or gold ?
3 : 22 But every woman shall borrow of her neighbour , and of her that sojourneth in her house , jewels of silver , and jewels of gold , and raiment : and ye shall put them upon your sons , and upon your daughters ; and ye shall spoil the Egyptians .
11 : 2 Speak now in the ears of the people , and let every man borrow of his neighbour , and every woman of her neighbour , jewels of silver and jewels of gold .
12 : 35 And the children of Israel did according to the word of Moses ; and they borrowed of the Egyptians jewels of silver , and jewels of gold , and raiment : 12 : 36 And the LORD gave the people favour in the sight of the Egyptians , so that they lent unto them such things as they required .
20 : 23 Ye shall not make with me gods of silver , neither shall ye make unto you gods of gold .
25 : 3 And this is the offering which ye shall take of them ; gold , and silver , and brass , 25 : 4 And blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine linen , and goats ' hair , 25 : 5 And rams ' skins dyed red , and badgers ' skins , and shittim wood , 25 : 6 Oil for the light , spices for anointing oil , and for sweet incense , 25 : 7 Onyx stones , and stones to be set in the ephod , and in the breastplate .
25 : 11 And thou shalt overlay it with pure gold , within and without shalt thou overlay it , and shalt make upon it a crown of gold round about .
25 : 12 And thou shalt cast four rings of gold for it , and put them in the four corners thereof ; and two rings shall be in the one side of it , and two rings in the other side of it .
25 : 13 And thou shalt make staves of shittim wood , and overlay them with gold .
25 : 17 And thou shalt make a mercy seat of pure gold : two cubits and a half shall be the length thereof , and a cubit and a half the breadth thereof .
25 : 18 And thou shalt make two cherubims of gold , of beaten work shalt thou make them , in the two ends of the mercy seat .
25 : 24 And thou shalt overlay it with pure gold , and make thereto a crown of gold round about .
25 : 26 And thou shalt make for it four rings of gold , and put the rings in the four corners that are on the four feet thereof .
25 : 28 And thou shalt make the staves of shittim wood , and overlay them with gold , that the table may be borne with them .
25 : 29 And thou shalt make the dishes thereof , and spoons thereof , and covers thereof , and bowls thereof , to cover withal : of pure gold shalt thou make them .
25 : 31 And thou shalt make a candlestick of pure gold : of beaten work shall the candlestick be made : his shaft , and his branches , his bowls , his knops , and his flowers , shall be of the same .
25 : 36 Their knops and their branches shall be of the same : all it shall be one beaten work of pure gold .
25 : 38 And the tongs thereof , and the snuffdishes thereof , shall be of pure gold .
25 : 39 Of a talent of pure gold shall he make it , with all these vessels .
26 : 6 And thou shalt make fifty taches of gold , and couple the curtains together with the taches : and it shall be one tabernacle .
26 : 29 And thou shalt overlay the boards with gold , and make their rings of gold for places for the bars : and thou shalt overlay the bars with gold .
26 : 31 And thou shalt make a vail of blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine twined linen of cunning work : with cherubims shall it be made : 26 : 32 And thou shalt hang it upon four pillars of shittim wood overlaid with gold : their hooks shall be of gold , upon the four sockets of silver .
26 : 37 And thou shalt make for the hanging five pillars of shittim wood , and overlay them with gold , and their hooks shall be of gold : and thou shalt cast five sockets of brass for them .
28 : 5 And they shall take gold , and blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine linen .
28 : 6 And they shall make the ephod of gold , of blue , and of purple , of scarlet , and fine twined linen , with cunning work .
28 : 8 And the curious girdle of the ephod , which is upon it , shall be of the same , according to the work thereof ; even of gold , of blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine twined linen .
28 : 11 With the work of an engraver in stone , like the engravings of a signet , shalt thou engrave the two stones with the names of the children of Israel : thou shalt make them to be set in ouches of gold .
28 : 13 And thou shalt make ouches of gold ; 28 : 14 And two chains of pure gold at the ends ; of wreathen work shalt thou make them , and fasten the wreathen chains to the ouches .
28 : 15 And thou shalt make the breastplate of judgment with cunning work ; after the work of the ephod thou shalt make it ; of gold , of blue , and of purple , and of scarlet , and of fine twined linen , shalt thou make it .
28 : 20 And the fourth row a beryl , and an onyx , and a jasper : they shall be set in gold in their inclosings .
28 : 22 And thou shalt make upon the breastplate chains at the ends of wreathen work of pure gold .
28 : 23 And thou shalt make upon the breastplate two rings of gold , and shalt put the two rings on the two ends of the breastplate .
28 : 24 And thou shalt put the two wreathen chains of gold in the two rings which are on the ends of the breastplate .
28 : 26 And thou shalt make two rings of gold , and thou shalt put them upon the two ends of the breastplate in the border thereof , which is in the side of the ephod inward .
28 : 27 And two other rings of gold thou shalt make , and shalt put them on the two sides of the ephod underneath , toward the forepart thereof , over against the other coupling thereof , above the curious girdle of the ephod .
28 : 33 And beneath upon the hem of it thou shalt make pomegranates of blue , and of purple , and of scarlet , round about the hem thereof ; and bells of gold between them round about : 28 : 34 A golden bell and a pomegranate , a golden bell and a pomegranate , upon the hem of the robe round about .
28 : 36 And thou shalt make a plate of pure gold , and grave upon it , like the engravings of a signet , HOLINESS TO THE LORD .
30 : 3 And thou shalt overlay it with pure gold , the top thereof , and the sides thereof round about , and the horns thereof ; and thou shalt make unto it a crown of gold round about .
30 : 5 And thou shalt make the staves of shittim wood , and overlay them with gold .
31 : 1 And the LORD spake unto Moses , saying , 31 : 2 See , I have called by name Bezaleel the son of Uri , the son of Hur , of the tribe of Judah : 31 : 3 And I have filled him with the spirit of God , in wisdom , and in understanding , and in knowledge , and in all manner of workmanship , 31 : 4 To devise cunning works , to work in gold , and in silver , and in brass , 31 : 5 And in cutting of stones , to set them , and in carving of timber , to work in all manner of workmanship .
32 : 24 And I said unto them , Whosoever hath any gold , let them break it off .
32 : 31 And Moses returned unto the LORD , and said , Oh , this people have sinned a great sin , and have made them gods of gold .
35 : 4 And Moses spake unto all the congregation of the children of Israel , saying , This is the thing which the LORD commanded , saying , 35 : 5 Take ye from among you an offering unto the LORD : whosoever is of a willing heart , let him bring it , an offering of the LORD ; gold , and silver , and brass , 35 : 6 And blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine linen , and goats ' hair , 35 : 7 And rams ' skins dyed red , and badgers ' skins , and shittim wood , 35 : 8 And oil for the light , and spices for anointing oil , and for the sweet incense , 35 : 9 And onyx stones , and stones to be set for the ephod , and for the breastplate .
35 : 22 And they came , both men and women , as many as were willing hearted , and brought bracelets , and earrings , and rings , and tablets , all jewels of gold : and every man that offered offered an offering of gold unto the LORD .
35 : 30 And Moses said unto the children of Israel , See , the LORD hath called by name Bezaleel the son of Uri , the son of Hur , of the tribe of Judah ; 35 : 31 And he hath filled him with the spirit of God , in wisdom , in understanding , and in knowledge , and in all manner of workmanship ; 35 : 32 And to devise curious works , to work in gold , and in silver , and in brass , 35 : 33 And in the cutting of stones , to set them , and in carving of wood , to make any manner of cunning work .
36 : 13 And he made fifty taches of gold , and coupled the curtains one unto another with the taches : so it became one tabernacle .
36 : 34 And he overlaid the boards with gold , and made their rings of gold to be places for the bars , and overlaid the bars with gold .
36 : 36 And he made thereunto four pillars of shittim wood , and overlaid them with gold : their hooks were of gold ; and he cast for them four sockets of silver .
36 : 37 And he made an hanging for the tabernacle door of blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine twined linen , of needlework ; 36 : 38 And the five pillars of it with their hooks : and he overlaid their chapiters and their fillets with gold : but their five sockets were of brass .
37 : 1 And Bezaleel made the ark of shittim wood : two cubits and a half was the length of it , and a cubit and a half the breadth of it , and a cubit and a half the height of it : 37 : 2 And he overlaid it with pure gold within and without , and made a crown of gold to it round about .
37 : 3 And he cast for it four rings of gold , to be set by the four corners of it ; even two rings upon the one side of it , and two rings upon the other side of it .
37 : 4 And he made staves of shittim wood , and overlaid them with gold .
37 : 6 And he made the mercy seat of pure gold : two cubits and a half was the length thereof , and one cubit and a half the breadth thereof .
37 : 7 And he made two cherubims of gold , beaten out of one piece made he them , on the two ends of the mercy seat ; 37 : 8 One cherub on the end on this side , and another cherub on the other end on that side : out of the mercy seat made he the cherubims on the two ends thereof .
37 : 10 And he made the table of shittim wood : two cubits was the length thereof , and a cubit the breadth thereof , and a cubit and a half the height thereof : 37 : 11 And he overlaid it with pure gold , and made thereunto a crown of gold round about .
37 : 12 Also he made thereunto a border of an handbreadth round about ; and made a crown of gold for the border thereof round about .
37 : 13 And he cast for it four rings of gold , and put the rings upon the four corners that were in the four feet thereof .
37 : 15 And he made the staves of shittim wood , and overlaid them with gold , to bear the table .
37 : 16 And he made the vessels which were upon the table , his dishes , and his spoons , and his bowls , and his covers to cover withal , of pure gold .
37 : 17 And he made the candlestick of pure gold : of beaten work made he the candlestick ; his shaft , and his branch , his bowls , his knops , and his flowers , were of the same : 37 : 18 And six branches going out of the sides thereof ; three branches of the candlestick out of the one side thereof , and three branches of the candlestick out of the other side thereof : 37 : 19 Three bowls made after the fashion of almonds in one branch , a knop and a flower ; and three bowls made like almonds in another branch , a knop and a flower : so throughout the six branches going out of the candlestick .
37 : 22 Their knops and their branches were of the same : all of it was one beaten work of pure gold .
37 : 23 And he made his seven lamps , and his snuffers , and his snuffdishes , of pure gold .
37 : 24 Of a talent of pure gold made he it , and all the vessels thereof .
37 : 26 And he overlaid it with pure gold , both the top of it , and the sides thereof round about , and the horns of it : also he made unto it a crown of gold round about .
37 : 27 And he made two rings of gold for it under the crown thereof , by the two corners of it , upon the two sides thereof , to be places for the staves to bear it withal .
37 : 28 And he made the staves of shittim wood , and overlaid them with gold .
38 : 24 All the gold that was occupied for the work in all the work of the holy place , even the gold of the offering , was twenty and nine talents , and seven hundred and thirty shekels , after the shekel of the sanctuary .
39 : 2 And he made the ephod of gold , blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine twined linen .
39 : 3 And they did beat the gold into thin plates , and cut it into wires , to work it in the blue , and in the purple , and in the scarlet , and in the fine linen , with cunning work .
39 : 5 And the curious girdle of his ephod , that was upon it , was of the same , according to the work thereof ; of gold , blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine twined linen ; as the LORD commanded Moses .
39 : 6 And they wrought onyx stones inclosed in ouches of gold , graven , as signets are graven , with the names of the children of Israel .
39 : 8 And he made the breastplate of cunning work , like the work of the ephod ; of gold , blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine twined linen .
39 : 13 And the fourth row , a beryl , an onyx , and a jasper : they were inclosed in ouches of gold in their inclosings .
39 : 15 And they made upon the breastplate chains at the ends , of wreathen work of pure gold .
39 : 16 And they made two ouches of gold , and two gold rings ; and put the two rings in the two ends of the breastplate .
39 : 17 And they put the two wreathen chains of gold in the two rings on the ends of the breastplate .
39 : 19 And they made two rings of gold , and put them on the two ends of the breastplate , upon the border of it , which was on the side of the ephod inward .
39 : 25 And they made bells of pure gold , and put the bells between the pomegranates upon the hem of the robe , round about between the pomegranates ; 39 : 26 A bell and a pomegranate , a bell and a pomegranate , round about the hem of the robe to minister in ; as the LORD commanded Moses .
39 : 30 And they made the plate of the holy crown of pure gold , and wrote upon it a writing , like to the engravings of a signet , HOLINESS TO THE LORD .
40 : 5 And thou shalt set the altar of gold for the incense before the ark of the testimony , and put the hanging of the door to the tabernacle .
7 : 12 And he that offered his offering the first day was Nahshon the son of Amminadab , of the tribe of Judah : 7 : 13 And his offering was one silver charger , the weight thereof was an hundred and thirty shekels , one silver bowl of seventy shekels , after the shekel of the sanctuary ; both of them were full of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering : 7 : 14 One spoon of ten shekels of gold , full of incense : 7 : 15 One young bullock , one ram , one lamb of the first year , for a burnt offering : 7 : 16 One kid of the goats for a sin offering : 7 : 17 And for a sacrifice of peace offerings , two oxen , five rams , five he goats , five lambs of the first year : this was the offering of Nahshon the son of Amminadab .
7 : 18 On the second day Nethaneel the son of Zuar , prince of Issachar , did offer : 7 : 19 He offered for his offering one silver charger , the weight whereof was an hundred and thirty shekels , one silver bowl of seventy shekels , after the shekel of the sanctuary ; both of them full of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering : 7 : 20 One spoon of gold of ten shekels , full of incense : 7 : 21 One young bullock , one ram , one lamb of the first year , for a burnt offering : 7 : 22 One kid of the goats for a sin offering : 7 : 23 And for a sacrifice of peace offerings , two oxen , five rams , five he goats , five lambs of the first year : this was the offering of Nethaneel the son of Zuar .
7 : 84 This was the dedication of the altar , in the day when it was anointed , by the princes of Israel : twelve chargers of silver , twelve silver bowls , twelve spoons of gold : 7 : 85 Each charger of silver weighing an hundred and thirty shekels , each bowl seventy : all the silver vessels weighed two thousand and four hundred shekels , after the shekel of the sanctuary : 7 : 86 The golden spoons were twelve , full of incense , weighing ten shekels apiece , after the shekel of the sanctuary : all the gold of the spoons was an hundred and twenty shekels .
8 : 4 And this work of the candlestick was of beaten gold , unto the shaft thereof , unto the flowers thereof , was beaten work : according unto the pattern which the LORD had shewed Moses , so he made the candlestick .
22 : 18 And Balaam answered and said unto the servants of Balak , If Balak would give me his house full of silver and gold , I cannot go beyond the word of the LORD my God , to do less or more .
24 : 12 And Balaam said unto Balak , Spake I not also to thy messengers which thou sentest unto me , saying , 24 : 13 If Balak would give me his house full of silver and gold , I cannot go beyond the commandment of the LORD , to do either good or bad of mine own mind ; but what the LORD saith , that will I speak ?
31 : 21 And Eleazar the priest said unto the men of war which went to the battle , This is the ordinance of the law which the LORD commanded Moses ; 31 : 22 Only the gold , and the silver , the brass , the iron , the tin , and the lead , 31 : 23 Every thing that may abide the fire , ye shall make it go through the fire , and it shall be clean : nevertheless it shall be purified with the water of separation : and all that abideth not the fire ye shall make go through the water .
31 : 50 We have therefore brought an oblation for the LORD , what every man hath gotten , of jewels of gold , chains , and bracelets , rings , earrings , and tablets , to make an atonement for our souls before the LORD .
31 : 51 And Moses and Eleazar the priest took the gold of them , even all wrought jewels .
31 : 52 And all the gold of the offering that they offered up to the LORD , of the captains of thousands , and of the captains of hundreds , was sixteen thousand seven hundred and fifty shekels .
31 : 54 And Moses and Eleazar the priest took the gold of the captains of thousands and of hundreds , and brought it into the tabernacle of the congregation , for a memorial for the children of Israel before the LORD .
7 : 25 The graven images of their gods shall ye burn with fire : thou shalt not desire the silver or gold that is on them , nor take it unto thee , lest thou be snared therin : for it is an abomination to the LORD thy God .
8 : 11 Beware that thou forget not the LORD thy God , in not keeping his commandments , and his judgments , and his statutes , which I command thee this day : 8 : 12 Lest when thou hast eaten and art full , and hast built goodly houses , and dwelt therein ; 8 : 13 And when thy herds and thy flocks multiply , and thy silver and thy gold is multiplied , and all that thou hast is multiplied ; 8 : 14 Then thine heart be lifted up , and thou forget the LORD thy God , which brought thee forth out of the land of Egypt , from the house of bondage ; 8 : 15 Who led thee through that great and terrible wilderness , wherein were fiery serpents , and scorpions , and drought , where there was no water ; who brought thee forth water out of the rock of flint ; 8 : 16 Who fed thee in the wilderness with manna , which thy fathers knew not , that he might humble thee , and that he might prove thee , to do thee good at thy latter end ; 8 : 17 And thou say in thine heart , My power and the might of mine hand hath gotten me this wealth .
17 : 17 Neither shall he multiply wives to himself , that his heart turn not away : neither shall he greatly multiply to himself silver and gold .
29 : 14 Neither with you only do I make this covenant and this oath ; 29 : 15 But with him that standeth here with us this day before the LORD our God , and also with him that is not here with us this day : 29 : 16 ( For ye know how we have dwelt in the land of Egypt ; and how we came through the nations which ye passed by ; 29 : 17 And ye have seen their abominations , and their idols , wood and stone , silver and gold , which were among them :) 29 : 18 Lest there should be among you man , or woman , or family , or tribe , whose heart turneth away this day from the LORD our God , to go and serve the gods of these nations ; lest there should be among you a root that beareth gall and wormwood ; 29 : 19 And it come to pass , when he heareth the words of this curse , that he bless himself in his heart , saying , I shall have peace , though I walk in the imagination of mine heart , to add drunkenness to thirst : 29 : 20 The LORD will not spare him , but then the anger of the LORD and his jealousy shall smoke against that man , and all the curses that are written in this book shall lie upon him , and the LORD shall blot out his name from under heaven .
6 : 19 But all the silver , and gold , and vessels of brass and iron , are consecrated unto the LORD : they shall come into the treasury of the LORD .
6 : 24 And they burnt the city with fire , and all that was therein : only the silver , and the gold , and the vessels of brass and of iron , they put into the treasury of the house of the LORD .
7 : 20 And Achan answered Joshua , and said , Indeed I have sinned against the LORD God of Israel , and thus and thus have I done : 7 : 21 When I saw among the spoils a goodly Babylonish garment , and two hundred shekels of silver , and a wedge of gold of fifty shekels weight , then I coveted them , and took them ; and , behold , they are hid in the earth in the midst of my tent , and the silver under it .
7 : 24 And Joshua , and all Israel with him , took Achan the son of Zerah , and the silver , and the garment , and the wedge of gold , and his sons , and his daughters , and his oxen , and his asses , and his sheep , and his tent , and all that he had : and they brought them unto the valley of Achor .
And when Joshua sent them away also unto their tents , then he blessed them , 22 : 8 And he spake unto them , saying , Return with much riches unto your tents , and with very much cattle , with silver , and with gold , and with brass , and with iron , and with very much raiment : divide the spoil of your enemies with your brethren .
8 : 26 And the weight of the golden earrings that he requested was a thousand and seven hundred shekels of gold ; beside ornaments , and collars , and purple raiment that was on the kings of Midian , and beside the chains that were about their camels ' necks .
6 : 7 Now therefore make a new cart , and take two milch kine , on which there hath come no yoke , and tie the kine to the cart , and bring their calves home from them : 6 : 8 And take the ark of the LORD , and lay it upon the cart ; and put the jewels of gold , which ye return him for a trespass offering , in a coffer by the side thereof ; and send it away , that it may go .
6 : 10 And the men did so ; and took two milch kine , and tied them to the cart , and shut up their calves at home : 6 : 11 And they laid the ark of the LORD upon the cart , and the coffer with the mice of gold and the images of their emerods .
6 : 15 And the Levites took down the ark of the LORD , and the coffer that was with it , wherein the jewels of gold were , and put them on the great stone : and the men of Bethshemesh offered burnt offerings and sacrificed sacrifices the same day unto the LORD .
1 : 24 Ye daughters of Israel , weep over Saul , who clothed you in scarlet , with other delights , who put on ornaments of gold upon your apparel .
8 : 7 And David took the shields of gold that were on the servants of Hadadezer , and brought them to Jerusalem .
And Joram brought with him vessels of silver , and vessels of gold , and vessels of brass : 8 : 11 Which also king David did dedicate unto the LORD , with the silver and gold that he had dedicated of all nations which he subdued ; 8 : 12 Of Syria , and of Moab , and of the children of Ammon , and of the Philistines , and of Amalek , and of the spoil of Hadadezer , son of Rehob , king of Zobah .
12 : 30 And he took their king ' s crown from off his head , the weight whereof was a talent of gold with the precious stones : and it was set on David ' s head .
21 : 4 And the Gibeonites said unto him , We will have no silver nor gold of Saul , nor of his house ; neither for us shalt thou kill any man in Israel .
6 : 20 And the oracle in the forepart was twenty cubits in length , and twenty cubits in breadth , and twenty cubits in the height thereof : and he overlaid it with pure gold ; and so covered the altar which was of cedar .
6 : 21 So Solomon overlaid the house within with pure gold : and he made a partition by the chains of gold before the oracle ; and he overlaid it with gold .
6 : 22 And the whole house he overlaid with gold , until he had finished all the house : also the whole altar that was by the oracle he overlaid with gold .
6 : 28 And he overlaid the cherubims with gold .
6 : 30 And the floors of the house he overlaid with gold , within and without .
6 : 32 The two doors also were of olive tree ; and he carved upon them carvings of cherubims and palm trees and open flowers , and overlaid them with gold , and spread gold upon the cherubims , and upon the palm trees .
6 : 35 And he carved thereon cherubims and palm trees and open flowers : and covered them with gold fitted upon the carved work .
7 : 48 And Solomon made all the vessels that pertained unto the house of the LORD : the altar of gold , and the table of gold , whereupon the shewbread was , 7 : 49 And the candlesticks of pure gold , five on the right side , and five on the left , before the oracle , with the flowers , and the lamps , and the tongs of gold , 7 : 50 And the bowls , and the snuffers , and the basons , and the spoons , and the censers of pure gold ; and the hinges of gold , both for the doors of the inner house , the most holy place , and for the doors of the house , to wit , of the temple .
And Solomon brought in the things which David his father had dedicated ; even the silver , and the gold , and the vessels , did he put among the treasures of the house of the LORD .
9 : 10 And it came to pass at the end of twenty years , when Solomon had built the two houses , the house of the LORD , and the king ' s house , 9 : 11 ( Now Hiram the king of Tyre had furnished Solomon with cedar trees and fir trees , and with gold , according to all his desire ,) that then king Solomon gave Hiram twenty cities in the land of Galilee .
9 : 14 And Hiram sent to the king sixscore talents of gold .
9 : 28 And they came to Ophir , and fetched from thence gold , four hundred and twenty talents , and brought it to king Solomon .
10 : 2 And she came to Jerusalem with a very great train , with camels that bare spices , and very much gold , and precious stones : and when she was come to Solomon , she communed with him of all that was in her heart .
10 : 10 And she gave the king an hundred and twenty talents of gold , and of spices very great store , and precious stones : there came no more such abundance of spices as these which the queen of Sheba gave to king Solomon .
10 : 11 And the navy also of Hiram , that brought gold from Ophir , brought in from Ophir great plenty of almug trees , and precious stones .
10 : 14 Now the weight of gold that came to Solomon in one year was six hundred threescore and six talents of gold , 10 : 15 Beside that he had of the merchantmen , and of the traffick of the spice merchants , and of all the kings of Arabia , and of the governors of the country .
10 : 16 And king Solomon made two hundred targets of beaten gold : six hundred shekels of gold went to one target .
10 : 17 And he made three hundred shields of beaten gold ; three pound of gold went to one shield : and the king put them in the house of the forest of Lebanon .
10 : 18 Moreover the king made a great throne of ivory , and overlaid it with the best gold .
10 : 21 And all king Solomon ' s drinking vessels were of gold , and all the vessels of the house of the forest of Lebanon were of pure gold ; none were of silver : it was nothing accounted of in the days of Solomon .
10 : 22 For the king had at sea a navy of Tharshish with the navy of Hiram : once in three years came the navy of Tharshish , bringing gold , and silver , ivory , and apes , and peacocks .
10 : 25 And they brought every man his present , vessels of silver , and vessels of gold , and garments , and armour , and spices , horses , and mules , a rate year by year .
12 : 28 Whereupon the king took counsel , and made two calves of gold , and said unto them , It is too much for you to go up to Jerusalem : behold thy gods , O Israel , which brought thee up out of the land of Egypt .
14 : 25 And it came to pass in the fifth year of king Rehoboam , that Shishak king of Egypt came up against Jerusalem : 14 : 26 And he took away the treasures of the house of the LORD , and the treasures of the king ' s house ; he even took away all : and he took away all the shields of gold which Solomon had made .
15 : 15 And he brought in the things which his father had dedicated , and the things which himself had dedicated , into the house of the LORD , silver , and gold , and vessels .
15 : 18 Then Asa took all the silver and the gold that were left in the treasures of the house of the LORD , and the treasures of the king ' s house , and delivered them into the hand of his servants : and king Asa sent them to Benhadad , the son of Tabrimon , the son of Hezion , king of Syria , that dwelt at Damascus , saying , 15 : 19 There is a league between me and thee , and between my father and thy father : behold , I have sent unto thee a present of silver and gold ; come and break thy league with Baasha king of Israel , that he may depart from me .
20 : 2 And he sent messengers to Ahab king of Israel into the city , and said unto him , Thus saith Benhadad , 20 : 3 Thy silver and thy gold is mine ; thy wives also and thy children , even the goodliest , are mine .
20 : 5 And the messengers came again , and said , Thus speaketh Benhadad , saying , Although I have sent unto thee , saying , Thou shalt deliver me thy silver , and thy gold , and thy wives , and thy children ; 20 : 6 Yet I will send my servants unto thee to morrow about this time , and they shall search thine house , and the houses of thy servants ; and it shall be , that whatsoever is pleasant in thine eyes , they shall put it in their hand , and take it away .
20 : 7 Then the king of Israel called all the elders of the land , and said , Mark , I pray you , and see how this man seeketh mischief : for he sent unto me for my wives , and for my children , and for my silver , and for my gold ; and I denied him not .
22 : 48 Jehoshaphat made ships of Tharshish to go to Ophir for gold : but they went not ; for the ships were broken at Eziongeber .
And he departed , and took with him ten talents of silver , and six thousand pieces of gold , and ten changes of raiment .
7 : 8 And when these lepers came to the uttermost part of the camp , they went into one tent , and did eat and drink , and carried thence silver , and gold , and raiment , and went and hid it ; and came again , and entered into another tent , and carried thence also , and went and hid it .
12 : 13 Howbeit there were not made for the house of the LORD bowls of silver , snuffers , basons , trumpets , any vessels of gold , or vessels of silver , of the money that was brought into the house of the LORD : 12 : 14 But they gave that to the workmen , and repaired therewith the house of the LORD .
12 : 18 And Jehoash king of Judah took all the hallowed things that Jehoshaphat , and Jehoram , and Ahaziah , his fathers , kings of Judah , had dedicated , and his own hallowed things , and all the gold that was found in the treasures of the house of the LORD , and in the king ' s house , and sent it to Hazael king of Syria : and he went away from Jerusalem .
14 : 14 And he took all the gold and silver , and all the vessels that were found in the house of the LORD , and in the treasures of the king ' s house , and hostages , and returned to Samaria .
16 : 8 And Ahaz took the silver and gold that was found in the house of the LORD , and in the treasures of the king ' s house , and sent it for a present to the king of Assyria .
And the king of Assyria appointed unto Hezekiah king of Judah three hundred talents of silver and thirty talents of gold .
18 : 16 At that time did Hezekiah cut off the gold from the doors of the temple of the LORD , and from the pillars which Hezekiah king of Judah had overlaid , and gave it to the king of Assyria .
20 : 13 And Hezekiah hearkened unto them , and shewed them all the house of his precious things , the silver , and the gold , and the spices , and the precious ointment , and all the house of his armour , and all that was found in his treasures : there was nothing in his house , nor in all his dominion , that Hezekiah shewed them not .
23 : 33 And Pharaohnechoh put him in bands at Riblah in the land of Hamath , that he might not reign in Jerusalem ; and put the land to a tribute of an hundred talents of silver , and a talent of gold .
23 : 35 And Jehoiakim gave the silver and the gold to Pharaoh ; but he taxed the land to give the money according to the commandment of Pharaoh : he exacted the silver and the gold of the people of the land , of every one according to his taxation , to give it unto Pharaohnechoh .
24 : 13 And he carried out thence all the treasures of the house of the LORD , and the treasures of the king ' s house , and cut in pieces all the vessels of gold which Solomon king of Israel had made in the temple of the LORD , as the LORD had said .
25 : 15 And the firepans , and the bowls , and such things as were of gold , in gold , and of silver , in silver , the captain of the guard took away .
18 : 7 And David took the shields of gold that were on the servants of Hadarezer , and brought them to Jerusalem .
18 : 9 Now when Tou king of Hamath heard how David had smitten all the host of Hadarezer king of Zobah ; 18 : 10 He sent Hadoram his son to king David , to enquire of his welfare , and to congratulate him , because he had fought against Hadarezer , and smitten him ; ( for Hadarezer had war with Tou ;) and with him all manner of vessels of gold and silver and brass .
18 : 11 Them also king David dedicated unto the LORD , with the silver and the gold that he brought from all these nations ; from Edom , and from Moab , and from the children of Ammon , and from the Philistines , and from Amalek .
20 : 2 And David took the crown of their king from off his head , and found it to weigh a talent of gold , and there were precious stones in it ; and it was set upon David ' s head : and he brought also exceeding much spoil out of the city .
21 : 25 So David gave to Ornan for the place six hundred shekels of gold by weight .
22 : 14 Now , behold , in my trouble I have prepared for the house of the LORD an hundred thousand talents of gold , and a thousand thousand talents of silver ; and of brass and iron without weight ; for it is in abundance : timber also and stone have I prepared ; and thou mayest add thereto .
22 : 16 Of the gold , the silver , and the brass , and the iron , there is no number .
28 : 14 He gave of gold by weight for things of gold , for all instruments of all manner of service ; silver also for all instruments of silver by weight , for all instruments of every kind of service : 28 : 15 Even the weight for the candlesticks of gold , and for their lamps of gold , by weight for every candlestick , and for the lamps thereof : and for the candlesticks of silver by weight , both for the candlestick , and also for the lamps thereof , according to the use of every candlestick .
28 : 16 And by weight he gave gold for the tables of shewbread , for every table ; and likewise silver for the tables of silver : 28 : 17 Also pure gold for the fleshhooks , and the bowls , and the cups : and for the golden basons he gave gold by weight for every bason ; and likewise silver by weight for every bason of silver : 28 : 18 And for the altar of incense refined gold by weight ; and gold for the pattern of the chariot of the cherubims , that spread out their wings , and covered the ark of the covenant of the LORD .
29 : 2 Now I have prepared with all my might for the house of my God the gold for things to be made of gold , and the silver for things of silver , and the brass for things of brass , the iron for things of iron , and wood for things of wood ; onyx stones , and stones to be set , glistering stones , and of divers colours , and all manner of precious stones , and marble stones in abundance .
29 : 3 Moreover , because I have set my affection to the house of my God , I have of mine own proper good , of gold and silver , which I have given to the house of my God , over and above all that I have prepared for the holy house .
29 : 4 Even three thousand talents of gold , of the gold of Ophir , and seven thousand talents of refined silver , to overlay the walls of the houses withal : 29 : 5 The gold for things of gold , and the silver for things of silver , and for all manner of work to be made by the hands of artificers .
29 : 6 Then the chief of the fathers and princes of the tribes of Israel and the captains of thousands and of hundreds , with the rulers of the king ' s work , offered willingly , 29 : 7 And gave for the service of the house of God of gold five thousand talents and ten thousand drams , and of silver ten thousand talents , and of brass eighteen thousand talents , and one hundred thousand talents of iron .
1 : 15 And the king made silver and gold at Jerusalem as plenteous as stones , and cedar trees made he as the sycomore trees that are in the vale for abundance .
2 : 7 Send me now therefore a man cunning to work in gold , and in silver , and in brass , and in iron , and in purple , and crimson , and blue , and that can skill to grave with the cunning men that are with me in Judah and in Jerusalem , whom David my father did provide .
2 : 13 And now I have sent a cunning man , endued with understanding , of Huram my father ' s , 2 : 14 The son of a woman of the daughters of Dan , and his father was a man of Tyre , skilful to work in gold , and in silver , in brass , in iron , in stone , and in timber , in purple , in blue , and in fine linen , and in crimson ; also to grave any manner of graving , and to find out every device which shall be put to him , with thy cunning men , and with the cunning men of my lord David thy father .
3 : 4 And the porch that was in the front of the house , the length of it was according to the breadth of the house , twenty cubits , and the height was an hundred and twenty : and he overlaid it within with pure gold .
3 : 5 And the greater house he cieled with fir tree , which he overlaid with fine gold , and set thereon palm trees and chains .
3 : 6 And he garnished the house with precious stones for beauty : and the gold was gold of Parvaim .
3 : 7 He overlaid also the house , the beams , the posts , and the walls thereof , and the doors thereof , with gold ; and graved cherubims on the walls .
3 : 8 And he made the most holy house , the length whereof was according to the breadth of the house , twenty cubits , and the breadth thereof twenty cubits : and he overlaid it with fine gold , amounting to six hundred talents .
3 : 9 And the weight of the nails was fifty shekels of gold .
And he overlaid the upper chambers with gold .
3 : 10 And in the most holy house he made two cherubims of image work , and overlaid them with gold .
4 : 7 And he made ten candlesticks of gold according to their form , and set them in the temple , five on the right hand , and five on the left .
And he made an hundred basons of gold .
4 : 19 And Solomon made all the vessels that were for the house of God , the golden altar also , and the tables whereon the shewbread was set ; 4 : 20 Moreover the candlesticks with their lamps , that they should burn after the manner before the oracle , of pure gold ; 4 : 21 And the flowers , and the lamps , and the tongs , made he of gold , and that perfect gold ; 4 : 22 And the snuffers , and the basons , and the spoons , and the censers , of pure gold : and the entry of the house , the inner doors thereof for the most holy place , and the doors of the house of the temple , were of gold .
5 : 1 Thus all the work that Solomon made for the house of the LORD was finished : and Solomon brought in all the things that David his father had dedicated ; and the silver , and the gold , and all the instruments , put he among the treasures of the house of God .
8 : 18 And Huram sent him by the hands of his servants ships , and servants that had knowledge of the sea ; and they went with the servants of Solomon to Ophir , and took thence four hundred and fifty talents of gold , and brought them to king Solomon .
9 : 1 And when the queen of Sheba heard of the fame of Solomon , she came to prove Solomon with hard questions at Jerusalem , with a very great company , and camels that bare spices , and gold in abundance , and precious stones : and when she was come to Solomon , she communed with him of all that was in her heart .
9 : 9 And she gave the king an hundred and twenty talents of gold , and of spices great abundance , and precious stones : neither was there any such spice as the queen of Sheba gave king Solomon .
9 : 10 And the servants also of Huram , and the servants of Solomon , which brought gold from Ophir , brought algum trees and precious stones .
9 : 13 Now the weight of gold that came to Solomon in one year was six hundred and threescore and six talents of gold ; 9 : 14 Beside that which chapmen and merchants brought .
And all the kings of Arabia and governors of the country brought gold and silver to Solomon .
9 : 15 And king Solomon made two hundred targets of beaten gold : six hundred shekels of beaten gold went to one target .
9 : 16 And three hundred shields made he of beaten gold : three hundred shekels of gold went to one shield .
9 : 17 Moreover the king made a great throne of ivory , and overlaid it with pure gold .
9 : 18 And there were six steps to the throne , with a footstool of gold , which were fastened to the throne , and stays on each side of the sitting place , and two lions standing by the stays : 9 : 19 And twelve lions stood there on the one side and on the other upon the six steps .
9 : 20 And all the drinking vessels of king Solomon were of gold , and all the vessels of the house of the forest of Lebanon were of pure gold : none were of silver ; it was not any thing accounted of in the days of Solomon .
9 : 21 For the king ' s ships went to Tarshish with the servants of Huram : every three years once came the ships of Tarshish bringing gold , and silver , ivory , and apes , and peacocks .
9 : 24 And they brought every man his present , vessels of silver , and vessels of gold , and raiment , harness , and spices , horses , and mules , a rate year by year .
12 : 9 So Shishak king of Egypt came up against Jerusalem , and took away the treasures of the house of the LORD , and the treasures of the king ' s house ; he took all : he carried away also the shields of gold which Solomon had made .
13 : 10 But as for us , the LORD is our God , and we have not forsaken him ; and the priests , which minister unto the LORD , are the sons of Aaron , and the Levites wait upon their business : 13 : 11 And they burn unto the LORD every morning and every evening burnt sacrifices and sweet incense : the shewbread also set they in order upon the pure table ; and the candlestick of gold with the lamps thereof , to burn every evening : for we keep the charge of the LORD our God ; but ye have forsaken him .
15 : 18 And he brought into the house of God the things that his father had dedicated , and that he himself had dedicated , silver , and gold , and vessels .
16 : 2 Then Asa brought out silver and gold out of the treasures of the house of the LORD and of the king ' s house , and sent to Benhadad king of Syria , that dwelt at Damascus , saying , 16 : 3 There is a league between me and thee , as there was between my father and thy father : behold , I have sent thee silver and gold ; go , break thy league with Baasha king of Israel , that he may depart from me .
21 : 3 And their father gave them great gifts of silver , and of gold , and of precious things , with fenced cities in Judah : but the kingdom gave he to Jehoram ; because he was the firstborn .
24 : 14 And when they had finished it , they brought the rest of the money before the king and Jehoiada , whereof were made vessels for the house of the LORD , even vessels to minister , and to offer withal , and spoons , and vessels of gold and silver .
25 : 24 And he took all the gold and the silver , and all the vessels that were found in the house of God with Obededom , and the treasures of the king ' s house , the hostages also , and returned to Samaria .
32 : 27 And Hezekiah had exceeding much riches and honour : and he made himself treasuries for silver , and for gold , and for precious stones , and for spices , and for shields , and for all manner of pleasant jewels ; 32 : 28 Storehouses also for the increase of corn , and wine , and oil ; and stalls for all manner of beasts , and cotes for flocks .
36 : 3 And the king of Egypt put him down at Jerusalem , and condemned the land in an hundred talents of silver and a talent of gold .
1 : 4 And whosoever remaineth in any place where he sojourneth , let the men of his place help him with silver , and with gold , and with goods , and with beasts , beside the freewill offering for the house of God that is in Jerusalem .
1 : 6 And all they that were about them strengthened their hands with vessels of silver , with gold , with goods , and with beasts , and with precious things , beside all that was willingly offered .
1 : 9 And this is the number of them : thirty chargers of gold , a thousand chargers of silver , nine and twenty knives , 1 : 10 Thirty basons of gold , silver basons of a second sort four hundred and ten , and other vessels a thousand .
1 : 11 All the vessels of gold and of silver were five thousand and four hundred .
2 : 68 And some of the chief of the fathers , when they came to the house of the LORD which is at Jerusalem , offered freely for the house of God to set it up in his place : 2 : 69 They gave after their ability unto the treasure of the work threescore and one thousand drams of gold , and five thousand pound of silver , and one hundred priests ' garments .
5 : 14 And the vessels also of gold and silver of the house of God , which Nebuchadnezzar took out of the temple that was in Jerusalem , and brought them into the temple of Babylon , those did Cyrus the king take out of the temple of Babylon , and they were delivered unto one , whose name was Sheshbazzar , whom he had made governor ; 5 : 15 And said unto him , Take these vessels , go , carry them into the temple that is in Jerusalem , and let the house of God be builded in his place .
7 : 14 Forasmuch as thou art sent of the king , and of his seven counsellors , to enquire concerning Judah and Jerusalem , according to the law of thy God which is in thine hand ; 7 : 15 And to carry the silver and gold , which the king and his counsellors have freely offered unto the God of Israel , whose habitation is in Jerusalem , 7 : 16 And all the silver and gold that thou canst find in all the province of Babylon , with the freewill offering of the people , and of the priests , offering willingly for the house of their God which is in Jerusalem : 7 : 17 That thou mayest buy speedily with this money bullocks , rams , lambs , with their meat offerings and their drink offerings , and offer them upon the altar of the house of your God which is in Jerusalem .
7 : 18 And whatsoever shall seem good to thee , and to thy brethren , to do with the rest of the silver and the gold , that do after the will of your God .
8 : 24 Then I separated twelve of the chief of the priests , Sherebiah , Hashabiah , and ten of their brethren with them , 8 : 25 And weighed unto them the silver , and the gold , and the vessels , even the offering of the house of our God , which the king , and his counsellors , and his lords , and all Israel there present , had offered : 8 : 26 I even weighed unto their hand six hundred and fifty talents of silver , and silver vessels an hundred talents , and of gold an hundred talents ; 8 : 27 Also twenty basons of gold , of a thousand drams ; and two vessels of fine copper , precious as gold .
8 : 28 And I said unto them , Ye are holy unto the LORD ; the vessels are holy also ; and the silver and the gold are a freewill offering unto the LORD God of your fathers .
8 : 30 So took the priests and the Levites the weight of the silver , and the gold , and the vessels , to bring them to Jerusalem unto the house of our God .
8 : 33 Now on the fourth day was the silver and the gold and the vessels weighed in the house of our God by the hand of Meremoth the son of Uriah the priest ; and with him was Eleazar the son of Phinehas ; and with them was Jozabad the son of Jeshua , and Noadiah the son of Binnui , Levites ; 8 : 34 By number and by weight of every one : and all the weight was written at that time .
The Tirshatha gave to the treasure a thousand drams of gold , fifty basons , five hundred and thirty priests ' garments .
7 : 71 And some of the chief of the fathers gave to the treasure of the work twenty thousand drams of gold , and two thousand and two hundred pound of silver .
7 : 72 And that which the rest of the people gave was twenty thousand drams of gold , and two thousand pound of silver , and threescore and seven priests ' garments .
1 : 5 And when these days were expired , the king made a feast unto all the people that were present in Shushan the palace , both unto great and small , seven days , in the court of the garden of the king ' s palace ; 1 : 6 Where were white , green , and blue , hangings , fastened with cords of fine linen and purple to silver rings and pillars of marble : the beds were of gold and silver , upon a pavement of red , and blue , and white , and black , marble .
1 : 7 And they gave them drink in vessels of gold , ( the vessels being diverse one from another ,) and royal wine in abundance , according to the state of the king .
8 : 15 And Mordecai went out from the presence of the king in royal apparel of blue and white , and with a great crown of gold , and with a garment of fine linen and purple : and the city of Shushan rejoiced and was glad .
3 : 13 For now should I have lain still and been quiet , I should have slept : then had I been at rest , 3 : 14 With kings and counsellors of the earth , which build desolate places for themselves ; 3 : 15 Or with princes that had gold , who filled their houses with silver : 3 : 16 Or as an hidden untimely birth I had not been ; as infants which never saw light .
22 : 24 Then shalt thou lay up gold as dust , and the gold of Ophir as the stones of the brooks .
23 : 8 Behold , I go forward , but he is not there ; and backward , but I cannot perceive him : 23 : 9 On the left hand , where he doth work , but I cannot behold him : he hideth himself on the right hand , that I cannot see him : 23 : 10 But he knoweth the way that I take : when he hath tried me , I shall come forth as gold .
28 : 1 Surely there is a vein for the silver , and a place for gold where they fine it .
28 : 6 The stones of it are the place of sapphires : and it hath dust of gold .
28 : 15 It cannot be gotten for gold , neither shall silver be weighed for the price thereof .
28 : 16 It cannot be valued with the gold of Ophir , with the precious onyx , or the sapphire .
28 : 17 The gold and the crystal cannot equal it : and the exchange of it shall not be for jewels of fine gold .
28 : 19 The topaz of Ethiopia shall not equal it , neither shall it be valued with pure gold .
31 : 24 If I have made gold my hope , or have said to the fine gold , Thou art my confidence ; 31 : 25 If I rejoice because my wealth was great , and because mine hand had gotten much ; 31 : 26 If I beheld the sun when it shined , or the moon walking in brightness ; 31 : 27 And my heart hath been secretly enticed , or my mouth hath kissed my hand : 31 : 28 This also were an iniquity to be punished by the judge : for I should have denied the God that is above .
no , not gold , nor all the forces of strength .
42 : 11 Then came there unto him all his brethren , and all his sisters , and all they that had been of his acquaintance before , and did eat bread with him in his house : and they bemoaned him , and comforted him over all the evil that the LORD had brought upon him : every man also gave him a piece of money , and every one an earring of gold .
19 : 10 More to be desired are they than gold , yea , than much fine gold : sweeter also than honey and the honeycomb .
21 : 3 For thou preventest him with the blessings of goodness : thou settest a crown of pure gold on his head .
45 : 9 Kings ' daughters were among thy honourable women : upon thy right hand did stand the queen in gold of Ophir .
45 : 13 The king ' s daughter is all glorious within : her clothing is of wrought gold .
68 : 13 Though ye have lien among the pots , yet shall ye be as the wings of a dove covered with silver , and her feathers with yellow gold .
72 : 15 And he shall live , and to him shall be given of the gold of Sheba : prayer also shall be made for him continually ; and daily shall he be praised .
105 : 37 He brought them forth also with silver and gold : and there was not one feeble person among their tribes .
115 : 4 Their idols are silver and gold , the work of men ' s hands .
119 : 72 The law of thy mouth is better unto me than thousands of gold and silver .
119 : 127 Therefore I love thy commandments above gold ; yea , above fine gold .
135 : 15 The idols of the heathen are silver and gold , the work of men ' s hands .
3 : 14 For the merchandise of it is better than the merchandise of silver , and the gain thereof than fine gold .
8 : 10 Receive my instruction , and not silver ; and knowledge rather than choice gold .
8 : 19 My fruit is better than gold , yea , than fine gold ; and my revenue than choice silver .
11 : 22 As a jewel of gold in a swine ' s snout , so is a fair woman which is without discretion .
16 : 16 How much better is it to get wisdom than gold !
17 : 3 The fining pot is for silver , and the furnace for gold : but the LORD trieth the hearts .
20 : 15 There is gold , and a multitude of rubies : but the lips of knowledge are a precious jewel .
22 : 1 A GOOD name is rather to be chosen than great riches , and loving favour rather than silver and gold .
25 : 11 A word fitly spoken is like apples of gold in pictures of silver .
25 : 12 As an earring of gold , and an ornament of fine gold , so is a wise reprover upon an obedient ear .
27 : 21 As the fining pot for silver , and the furnace for gold ; so is a man to his praise .
2 : 4 I made me great works ; I builded me houses ; I planted me vineyards : 2 : 5 I made me gardens and orchards , and I planted trees in them of all kind of fruits : 2 : 6 I made me pools of water , to water therewith the wood that bringeth forth trees : 2 : 7 I got me servants and maidens , and had servants born in my house ; also I had great possessions of great and small cattle above all that were in Jerusalem before me : 2 : 8 I gathered me also silver and gold , and the peculiar treasure of kings and of the provinces : I gat me men singers and women singers , and the delights of the sons of men , as musical instruments , and that of all sorts .
1 : 10 Thy cheeks are comely with rows of jewels , thy neck with chains of gold .
1 : 11 We will make thee borders of gold with studs of silver .
3 : 10 He made the pillars thereof of silver , the bottom thereof of gold , the covering of it of purple , the midst thereof being paved with love , for the daughters of Jerusalem .
5 : 11 His head is as the most fine gold , his locks are bushy , and black as a raven .
5 : 14 His hands are as gold rings set with the beryl : his belly is as bright ivory overlaid with sapphires .
5 : 15 His legs are as pillars of marble , set upon sockets of fine gold : his countenance is as Lebanon , excellent as the cedars .
2 : 7 Their land also is full of silver and gold , neither is there any end of their treasures ; their land is also full of horses , neither is there any end of their chariots : 2 : 8 Their land also is full of idols ; they worship the work of their own hands , that which their own fingers have made : 2 : 9 And the mean man boweth down , and the great man humbleth himself : therefore forgive them not .
2 : 20 In that day a man shall cast his idols of silver , and his idols of gold , which they made each one for himself to worship , to the moles and to the bats ; 2 : 21 To go into the clefts of the rocks , and into the tops of the ragged rocks , for fear of the LORD , and for the glory of his majesty , when he ariseth to shake terribly the earth .
13 : 12 I will make a man more precious than fine gold ; even a man than the golden wedge of Ophir .
13 : 17 Behold , I will stir up the Medes against them , which shall not regard silver ; and as for gold , they shall not delight in it .
30 : 22 Ye shall defile also the covering of thy graven images of silver , and the ornament of thy molten images of gold : thou shalt cast them away as a menstruous cloth ; thou shalt say unto it , Get thee hence .
31 : 7 For in that day every man shall cast away his idols of silver , and his idols of gold , which your own hands have made unto you for a sin .
39 : 2 And Hezekiah was glad of them , and shewed them the house of his precious things , the silver , and the gold , and the spices , and the precious ointment , and all the house of his armour , and all that was found in his treasures : there was nothing in his house , nor in all his dominion , that Hezekiah shewed them not .
40 : 19 The workman melteth a graven image , and the goldsmith spreadeth it over with gold , and casteth silver chains .
46 : 6 They lavish gold out of the bag , and weigh silver in the balance , and hire a goldsmith ; and he maketh it a god : they fall down , yea , they worship .
60 : 6 The multitude of camels shall cover thee , the dromedaries of Midian and Ephah ; all they from Sheba shall come : they shall bring gold and incense ; and they shall shew forth the praises of the LORD .
60 : 9 Surely the isles shall wait for me , and the ships of Tarshish first , to bring thy sons from far , their silver and their gold with them , unto the name of the LORD thy God , and to the Holy One of Israel , because he hath glorified thee .
60 : 17 For brass I will bring gold , and for iron I will bring silver , and for wood brass , and for stones iron : I will also make thy officers peace , and thine exactors righteousness .
Though thou clothest thyself with crimson , though thou deckest thee with ornaments of gold , though thou rentest thy face with painting , in vain shalt thou make thyself fair ; thy lovers will despise thee , they will seek thy life .
10 : 4 They deck it with silver and with gold ; they fasten it with nails and with hammers , that it move not .
10 : 9 Silver spread into plates is brought from Tarshish , and gold from Uphaz , the work of the workman , and of the hands of the founder : blue and purple is their clothing : they are all the work of cunning men .
52 : 19 And the basons , and the firepans , and the bowls , and the caldrons , and the candlesticks , and the spoons , and the cups ; that which was of gold in gold , and that which was of silver in silver , took the captain of the guard away .
4 : 1 How is the gold become dim !
how is the most fine gold changed !
4 : 2 The precious sons of Zion , comparable to fine gold , how are they esteemed as earthen pitchers , the work of the hands of the potter !
7 : 19 They shall cast their silver in the streets , and their gold shall be removed : their silver and their gold shall not be able to deliver them in the day of the wrath of the LORD : they shall not satisfy their souls , neither fill their bowels : because it is the stumblingblock of their iniquity .
16 : 13 Thus wast thou decked with gold and silver ; and thy raiment was of fine linen , and silk , and broidered work ; thou didst eat fine flour , and honey , and oil : and thou wast exceeding beautiful , and thou didst prosper into a kingdom .
16 : 17 Thou hast also taken thy fair jewels of my gold and of my silver , which I had given thee , and madest to thyself images of men , and didst commit whoredom with them , 16 : 18 And tookest thy broidered garments , and coveredst them : and thou hast set mine oil and mine incense before them .
27 : 22 The merchants of Sheba and Raamah , they were thy merchants : they occupied in thy fairs with chief of all spices , and with all precious stones , and gold .
28 : 1 The word of the LORD came again unto me , saying , 28 : 2 Son of man , say unto the prince of Tyrus , Thus saith the Lord GOD ; Because thine heart is lifted up , and thou hast said , I am a God , I sit in the seat of God , in the midst of the seas ; yet thou art a man , and not God , though thou set thine heart as the heart of God : 28 : 3 Behold , thou art wiser than Daniel ; there is no secret that they can hide from thee : 28 : 4 With thy wisdom and with thine understanding thou hast gotten thee riches , and hast gotten gold and silver into thy treasures : 28 : 5 By thy great wisdom and by thy traffick hast thou increased thy riches , and thine heart is lifted up because of thy riches : 28 : 6 Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD ; Because thou hast set thine heart as the heart of God ; 28 : 7 Behold , therefore I will bring strangers upon thee , the terrible of the nations : and they shall draw their swords against the beauty of thy wisdom , and they shall defile thy brightness .
28 : 13 Thou hast been in Eden the garden of God ; every precious stone was thy covering , the sardius , topaz , and the diamond , the beryl , the onyx , and the jasper , the sapphire , the emerald , and the carbuncle , and gold : the workmanship of thy tabrets and of thy pipes was prepared in thee in the day that thou wast created .
to carry away silver and gold , to take away cattle and goods , to take a great spoil ?
2 : 32 This image ' s head was of fine gold , his breast and his arms of silver , his belly and his thighs of brass , 2 : 33 His legs of iron , his feet part of iron and part of clay .
2 : 35 Then was the iron , the clay , the brass , the silver , and the gold , broken to pieces together , and became like the chaff of the summer threshingfloors ; and the wind carried them away , that no place was found for them : and the stone that smote the image became a great mountain , and filled the whole earth .
Thou art this head of gold .
2 : 45 Forasmuch as thou sawest that the stone was cut out of the mountain without hands , and that it brake in pieces the iron , the brass , the clay , the silver , and the gold ; the great God hath made known to the king what shall come to pass hereafter : and the dream is certain , and the interpretation thereof sure .
3 : 1 Nebuchadnezzar the king made an image of gold , whose height was threescore cubits , and the breadth thereof six cubits : he set it up in the plain of Dura , in the province of Babylon .
5 : 4 They drank wine , and praised the gods of gold , and of silver , of brass , of iron , of wood , and of stone .
And the king spake , and said to the wise men of Babylon , Whosoever shall read this writing , and shew me the interpretation thereof , shall be clothed with scarlet , and have a chain of gold about his neck , and shall be the third ruler in the kingdom .
5 : 15 And now the wise men , the astrologers , have been brought in before me , that they should read this writing , and make known unto me the interpretation thereof : but they could not shew the interpretation of the thing : 5 : 16 And I have heard of thee , that thou canst make interpretations , and dissolve doubts : now if thou canst read the writing , and make known to me the interpretation thereof , thou shalt be clothed with scarlet , and have a chain of gold about thy neck , and shalt be the third ruler in the kingdom .
5 : 22 And thou his son , O Belshazzar , hast not humbled thine heart , though thou knewest all this ; 5 : 23 But hast lifted up thyself against the Lord of heaven ; and they have brought the vessels of his house before thee , and thou , and thy lords , thy wives , and thy concubines , have drunk wine in them ; and thou hast praised the gods of silver , and gold , of brass , iron , wood , and stone , which see not , nor hear , nor know : and the God in whose hand thy breath is , and whose are all thy ways , hast thou not glorified : 5 : 24 Then was the part of the hand sent from him ; and this writing was written .
5 : 29 Then commanded Belshazzar , and they clothed Daniel with scarlet , and put a chain of gold about his neck , and made a proclamation concerning him , that he should be the third ruler in the kingdom .
10 : 4 And in the four and twentieth day of the first month , as I was by the side of the great river , which is Hiddekel ; 10 : 5 Then I lifted up mine eyes , and looked , and behold a certain man clothed in linen , whose loins were girded with fine gold of Uphaz : 10 : 6 His body also was like the beryl , and his face as the appearance of lightning , and his eyes as lamps of fire , and his arms and his feet like in colour to polished brass , and the voice of his words like the voice of a multitude .
11 : 7 But out of a branch of her roots shall one stand up in his estate , which shall come with an army , and shall enter into the fortress of the king of the north , and shall deal against them , and shall prevail : 11 : 8 And shall also carry captives into Egypt their gods , with their princes , and with their precious vessels of silver and of gold ; and he shall continue more years than the king of the north .
11 : 38 But in his estate shall he honour the God of forces : and a god whom his fathers knew not shall he honour with gold , and silver , and with precious stones , and pleasant things .
11 : 43 But he shall have power over the treasures of gold and of silver , and over all the precious things of Egypt : and the Libyans and the Ethiopians shall be at his steps .
2 : 8 For she did not know that I gave her corn , and wine , and oil , and multiplied her silver and gold , which they prepared for Baal .
8 : 4 They have set up kings , but not by me : they have made princes , and I knew it not : of their silver and their gold have they made them idols , that they may be cut off .
and if ye recompense me , swiftly and speedily will I return your recompence upon your own head ; 3 : 5 Because ye have taken my silver and my gold , and have carried into your temples my goodly pleasant things : 3 : 6 The children also of Judah and the children of Jerusalem have ye sold unto the Grecians , that ye might remove them far from their border .
2 : 9 Take ye the spoil of silver , take the spoil of gold : for there is none end of the store and glory out of all the pleasant furniture .
Behold , it is laid over with gold and silver , and there is no breath at all in the midst of it .
1 : 18 Neither their silver nor their gold shall be able to deliver them in the day of the LORD ' s wrath ; but the whole land shall be devoured by the fire of his jealousy : for he shall make even a speedy riddance of all them that dwell in the land .
2 : 8 The silver is mine , and the gold is mine , saith the LORD of hosts .
And I said , I have looked , and behold a candlestick all of gold , with a bowl upon the top of it , and his seven lamps thereon , and seven pipes to the seven lamps , which are upon the top thereof : 4 : 3 And two olive trees by it , one upon the right side of the bowl , and the other upon the left side thereof .
6 : 9 And the word of the LORD came unto me , saying , 6 : 10 Take of them of the captivity , even of Heldai , of Tobijah , and of Jedaiah , which are come from Babylon , and come thou the same day , and go into the house of Josiah the son of Zephaniah ; 6 : 11 Then take silver and gold , and make crowns , and set them upon the head of Joshua the son of Josedech , the high priest ; 6 : 12 And speak unto him , saying , Thus speaketh the LORD of hosts , saying , Behold the man whose name is The BRANCH ; and he shall grow up out of his place , and he shall build the temple of the LORD : 6 : 13 Even he shall build the temple of the LORD ; and he shall bear the glory , and shall sit and rule upon his throne ; and he shall be a priest upon his throne : and the counsel of peace shall be between them both .
9 : 3 And Tyrus did build herself a strong hold , and heaped up silver as the dust , and fine gold as the mire of the streets .
13 : 9 And I will bring the third part through the fire , and will refine them as silver is refined , and will try them as gold is tried : they shall call on my name , and I will hear them : I will say , It is my people : and they shall say , The LORD is my God .
14 : 14 And Judah also shall fight at Jerusalem ; and the wealth of all the heathen round about shall be gathered together , gold , and silver , and apparel , in great abundance .
for he is like a refiner ' s fire , and like fullers ' soap : 3 : 3 And he shall sit as a refiner and purifier of silver : and he shall purify the sons of Levi , and purge them as gold and silver , that they may offer unto the LORD an offering in righteousness .
2 : 11 And when they were come into the house , they saw the young child with Mary his mother , and fell down , and worshipped him : and when they had opened their treasures , they presented unto him gifts ; gold , and frankincense and myrrh .
10 : 9 Provide neither gold , nor silver , nor brass in your purses , 10 : 10 Nor scrip for your journey , neither two coats , neither shoes , nor yet staves : for the workman is worthy of his meat .
23 : 16 Woe unto you , ye blind guides , which say , Whosoever shall swear by the temple , it is nothing ; but whosoever shall swear by the gold of the temple , he is a debtor !
23 : 17 Ye fools and blind : for whether is greater , the gold , or the temple that sanctifieth the gold ?
3 : 6 Then Peter said , Silver and gold have I none ; but such as I have give I thee : In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth rise up and walk .
17 : 29 Forasmuch then as we are the offspring of God , we ought not to think that the Godhead is like unto gold , or silver , or stone , graven by art and man ' s device .
20 : 33 I have coveted no man ' s silver , or gold , or apparel .
3 : 12 Now if any man build upon this foundation gold , silver , precious stones , wood , hay , stubble ; 3 : 13 Every man ' s work shall be made manifest : for the day shall declare it , because it shall be revealed by fire ; and the fire shall try every man ' s work of what sort it is .
2 : 9 In like manner also , that women adorn themselves in modest apparel , with shamefacedness and sobriety ; not with broided hair , or gold , or pearls , or costly array ; 2 : 10 But ( which becometh women professing godliness ) with good works .
2 : 20 But in a great house there are not only vessels of gold and of silver , but also of wood and of earth ; and some to honour , and some to dishonour .
9 : 3 And after the second veil , the tabernacle which is called the Holiest of all ; 9 : 4 Which had the golden censer , and the ark of the covenant overlaid round about with gold , wherein was the golden pot that had manna , and Aaron ' s rod that budded , and the tables of the covenant ; 9 : 5 And over it the cherubims of glory shadowing the mercyseat ; of which we cannot now speak particularly .
2 : 2 For if there come unto your assembly a man with a gold ring , in goodly apparel , and there come in also a poor man in vile raiment ; 2 : 3 And ye have respect to him that weareth the gay clothing , and say unto him , Sit thou here in a good place ; and say to the poor , Stand thou there , or sit here under my footstool : 2 : 4 Are ye not then partial in yourselves , and are become judges of evil thoughts ?
5 : 3 Your gold and silver is cankered ; and the rust of them shall be a witness against you , and shall eat your flesh as it were fire .
1 : 6 Wherein ye greatly rejoice , though now for a season , if need be , ye are in heaviness through manifold temptations : 1 : 7 That the trial of your faith , being much more precious than of gold that perisheth , though it be tried with fire , might be found unto praise and honour and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ : 1 : 8 Whom having not seen , ye love ; in whom , though now ye see him not , yet believing , ye rejoice with joy unspeakable and full of glory : 1 : 9 Receiving the end of your faith , even the salvation of your souls .
1 : 17 And if ye call on the Father , who without respect of persons judgeth according to every man ' s work , pass the time of your sojourning here in fear : 1 : 18 Forasmuch as ye know that ye were not redeemed with corruptible things , as silver and gold , from your vain conversation received by tradition from your fathers ; 1 : 19 But with the precious blood of Christ , as of a lamb without blemish and without spot : 1 : 20 Who verily was foreordained before the foundation of the world , but was manifest in these last times for you , 1 : 21 Who by him do believe in God , that raised him up from the dead , and gave him glory ; that your faith and hope might be in God .
3 : 3 Whose adorning let it not be that outward adorning of plaiting the hair , and of wearing of gold , or of putting on of apparel ; 3 : 4 But let it be the hidden man of the heart , in that which is not corruptible , even the ornament of a meek and quiet spirit , which is in the sight of God of great price .
3 : 17 Because thou sayest , I am rich , and increased with goods , and have need of nothing ; and knowest not that thou art wretched , and miserable , and poor , and blind , and naked : 3 : 18 I counsel thee to buy of me gold tried in the fire , that thou mayest be rich ; and white raiment , that thou mayest be clothed , and that the shame of thy nakedness do not appear ; and anoint thine eyes with eyesalve , that thou mayest see .
4 : 4 And round about the throne were four and twenty seats : and upon the seats I saw four and twenty elders sitting , clothed in white raiment ; and they had on their heads crowns of gold .
9 : 7 And the shapes of the locusts were like unto horses prepared unto battle ; and on their heads were as it were crowns like gold , and their faces were as the faces of men .
9 : 20 And the rest of the men which were not killed by these plagues yet repented not of the works of their hands , that they should not worship devils , and idols of gold , and silver , and brass , and stone , and of wood : which neither can see , nor hear , nor walk : 9 : 21 Neither repented they of their murders , nor of their sorceries , nor of their fornication , nor of their thefts .
17 : 4 And the woman was arrayed in purple and scarlet colour , and decked with gold and precious stones and pearls , having a golden cup in her hand full of abominations and filthiness of her fornication : 17 : 5 And upon her forehead was a name written , MYSTERY , BABYLON THE GREAT , THE MOTHER OF HARLOTS AND ABOMINATIONS OF THE EARTH .
18 : 11 And the merchants of the earth shall weep and mourn over her ; for no man buyeth their merchandise any more : 18 : 12 The merchandise of gold , and silver , and precious stones , and of pearls , and fine linen , and purple , and silk , and scarlet , and all thyine wood , and all manner vessels of ivory , and all manner vessels of most precious wood , and of brass , and iron , and marble , 18 : 13 And cinnamon , and odours , and ointments , and frankincense , and wine , and oil , and fine flour , and wheat , and beasts , and sheep , and horses , and chariots , and slaves , and souls of men .
18 : 15 The merchants of these things , which were made rich by her , shall stand afar off for the fear of her torment , weeping and wailing , 18 : 16 And saying , Alas , alas that great city , that was clothed in fine linen , and purple , and scarlet , and decked with gold , and precious stones , and pearls !
21 : 18 And the building of the wall of it was of jasper : and the city was pure gold , like unto clear glass .
21 : 21 And the twelve gates were twelve pearls : every several gate was of one pearl : and the street of the city was pure gold , as it were transparent glass .
And there the lion ' s ruddy eyes Shall flow with tears of gold : And pitying the tender cries , And walking round the fold : Saying : " Wrath by His meekness , And , by His health , sickness , Are driven away From our immortal day .
For , washed in life ' s river , My bright mane for ever Shall shine like the gold , As I guard o ' er the fold ."
Leopards , tigers , play Round her as she lay ; While the lion old Bowed his mane of gold ,
They look upon his eyes , Filled with deep surprise ; And wondering behold A spirit armed in gold .
In the age of gold , Free from winter ' s cold , Youth and maiden bright , To the holy light , Naked in the sunny beams delight .
Or an Eye of gifts & graces showring fruits & coined gold !
One day she gave him a big piece of cake ; nice , yellow , rich gold - cake .
When he looked down at himself , as far as he could look , he saw that he was all hung with gold and silver chains !
There were strings of white fluffy stuff drooping around him ; his twigs held little gold nuts and pink , rosy balls and silver stars ; he had pretty little pink and white candles in his arms ; but last , and most wonderful of all , the children hung a beautiful white , floating doll - angel over his head !
In the great hall there was a gold perch for the Nightingale , beside the Emperor ' s throne .
Inside was an artificial bird , something like a Nightingale , only it was made of gold , and silver , and rubies , and emeralds , and diamonds .
So the artificial nightingale was given the real Nightingale ' s little gold perch , and every night the Emperor wound her up , and she sang waltz tunes to him .
The best they could do was to patch the gold nightingale up so that it could sing once a year ; even that was almost too much , and the tune was very shaky .
Still , the Emperor kept the gold nightingale on the perch in his own room .
Death had put on the Emperor ' s gold crown , and he had the gold sceptre in one hand , and the silken banner in the other ; and he looked at the Emperor with his great hollow eyes .
Then the Emperor cried , " You little gold nightingale , can you not sing something for me ?
I have given you gifts of gold and jewels , and kept you always by my side ; will you not help me now ?"
But there was nobody to wind the little gold nightingale up , and of course it could not sing .
Presently the Emperor felt his heart grow warm , then he felt the blood flow through his limbs again ; he listened to the song until the tears ran down his cheeks ; he knew that it was the little real Nightingale who had flown away from him when the gold nightingale came .
" Will you give me the Emperor ' s gold crown for a song ?"
Stay with me on this little gold perch , and sing to me always !"
After the little Nightingale had flown away , the Emperor felt so well and strong that he dressed himself in his royal robes and took his gold sceptre in his hand .
As she spoke , she placed a small gold ring on the prince ' s little finger .
The little gold ring began to feel tight and uncomfortable .
At the same time , the hermit stood up , his flowing hair changed to shining gold , and his face became a lovely woman ' s face ; it was the Fairy Candide .
He wore the little gold ring all the rest of his life , but never once did it have to prick him hard enough to make his finger bleed .
THE GOLD IN THE ORCHARD
When the farmer was old , and felt that his time had come to die , he called the three sons to him and said , " My sons , there is a pot of gold hidden in the olive orchard .
The sons tried to get him to tell them in what part of the orchard the gold was hidden ; but he would tell them nothing more .
After the farmer was dead , the sons went to work to find the pot of gold ; since they did not know where the hiding - place was , they agreed to begin in a line , at one end of the orchard , and to dig until one of them should find the money .
But no pot of gold was to be found .
The next olive season , the olive trees in the orchard bore more fruit than they had ever given before ; the fine cultivating they had had from the digging brought so much fruit , and of so fine a quality , that when it was sold it gave the sons a whole pot of gold !
And when they saw how much money had come from the orchard , they suddenly understood what the wise father had meant when he said , " There is gold hidden in the orchard ; dig for it ."
It is so old that even as long ago as four thousand years it had people who dug in the mines , and knew how to weave cloth and to make beautiful ornaments out of gold , and who could fight and make laws ; but we do not know just where they came from , nor exactly how they lived .
The harp was beautiful to look upon , mighty in size , made of rare wood , and ornamented with gold and jewels ; and it had wonderful music in its strings , which only the Dagda could call out .
Directly the Giant - Maidens were brought before Frode , and before they had rested after their long journey , or satisfied their hunger , he bade them go to the mill , and grind for him gold and peace and happiness .
' We grind for Frode Wealth and gold Abundant riches He shall behold .'"
" No longer will Frode sit on his throne , and rule over rings of red gold and mighty millstones .
Suddenly , out of the distance , something like a great butterfly , of white and gold , swept toward them .
So the postman took the letter to the great burly man who lived in the big house and wore a gold chain round his neck .
The gold and green and crimson of its sunset were not in the shapeless clouds but in shapes of cherubim and seraphim , awful human shapes with a passionate plumage .
In the sumptuous sunset of gold and purple and peacock green cloudlets and islets were the same .
The evening sky , a dome of solid gold , unflaked even by a single sunset cloud , steeped the meanest sights of London in a strange and mellow light .
It made a little greasy street of St . Martin ' s Lane look as if it were paved with gold .
But the romance of the eye , which really on this rich evening , clung about the shop , had its main source in the accident of two doors standing open , the front door that opened on the street and a back door that opened on an odd green square of garden , that the sun turned to a square of gold .
At the first glance he looked a fine animal , with curling gold beard and hair , and blue eyes , unusually bright .
It was only at the second glance that the mind felt a sudden and perhaps unmeaning irritation at the way in which the gold beard retreated backwards into the waistcoat , and the way in which the finely shaped nose went forward as if smelling its way .
Against the heraldic background of sprawling crimson and gold offered him by the expiring sunset , the figure of the man with the stick showed at first merely black and fantastic .
The moment the two duellists had pushed open the door of that inoffensive , whitewashed cottage they found that its interior was lined with fiery gold .
They imagined him to be occupied on some concerns in the interior of the house , and they waited for his emergence , stamping the garden in silence -- the garden of tall , fresh country flowers , in the midst of which the monstrous South Sea idol lifted itself as abruptly as the prow of a ship riding on a sea of red and white and gold .
They had explained and re - explained the Massacre of St . Bartholomew in little white lanes walled in with standing corn as with walls of gold .
Round the rays of the victorious sun swept a sort of rainbow of confused and conquered colours -- brown and blue and green and flaming rose - colour ; as though gold were driving before it all the colours of the world .
The sea that lay before them was like a pavement of emerald , bright and almost brittle ; the sky against which its strict horizon hung was almost absolutely white , except that close to the sky line , like scarlet braids on the hem of a garment , lay strings of flaky cloud of so gleaming and gorgeous a red that they seemed cut out of some strange blood - red celestial metal , of which the mere gold of this earth is but a drab yellow imitation .
On all that luxurious crest of life the risen and victorious sun was beating , burnishing it all like gold , and every bird that rose with that sunrise caught a light like a star upon it like the dove of the Holy Spirit .
He drank in the last green and the last red and the last gold , those unique and indescribable things of God , as a man drains good wine at the bottom of his glass .
Thy blood the priests mix poison of , And in gold shekels coin thy love .
Though the white vapour was still a veil , it was like the gauzy veil of a transformation scene in a pantomime ; for through it there glowed shapeless masses of colour , masses which might be clouds of sunrise or mosaics of gold and crimson , or ladies robed in ruby and emerald draperies .
Purple and crimson rhododendrons rose arrogantly , like rampant heraldic animals against their burning background of laburnum gold .
His face and neck were of a lusty red , but lean and stringy ; he always wore his expensive gold - rim eye - glasses slightly askew upon his aquiline nose ; and he always showed two gleaming foreteeth under his moustache , in a smile so perpetual as to earn the reputation of a sneer .
The maze of gravel pathways faded from gold to brown .
They did not even know what hour of the day it was ; and when , turning a corner , they saw the bare tunnel of the corridor end abruptly in a shining square of garden , the grass burning in that strong evening sunshine which makes it burnished gold rather than green , the abrupt opening on to the earth seemed like a hole knocked in the wall of heaven .
MacIan , I say , will remember this tender and transparent evening , partly because of its virgin gold and silver , and partly because he passed beneath it through the most horrible instant of his life .
" I saw her walk behind those blessed trees against that holy sky of gold as plain as I can see her whenever I shut my eyes .
It was a scarf of strong dead colours , dark red and old gold and purple , probably of Oriental fabrication .
It ran along the passage like a path of gold , and in the midst of it Aurora Rome lay lustrous in her robes of green and gold , with her dead face turned upwards .
It seemed to be the figure of a woman , wrapped up in a ragged cloak and evidently disguised to avoid notice ; there was something very strange both about the rags and the furtiveness in a person coming out of those rooms lined with gold .
I thought of that living and growing gold calling to me from all the heaths of the world -- and then of that dead , dull gold and bronze and brass of my brother ' s growing dustier and dustier as life went by .
And though he had to be loaded with lands and gold and made an ancestor of dukes , the elf - shaped ear is still recurrent in the family .
That is , that while it was ruddy and sanguine , there was a yellow in it that was in no way sickly , but seemed rather to glow like gold apples of the Hesperides -- Father Brown thought he had never seen a figure so expressive of all the romances about the countries of the Sun .
IT was one of those chilly and empty afternoons in early winter , when the daylight is silver rather than gold and pewter rather than silver .
But there was something fantastic about the snow combined with something artificial about the gold that haunted Flambeau as well as his friend with some association he could not capture , but which he knew was at once artistic and alien .
He was a quiet , well - featured fellow , rather sallow ; his dark clothes had nothing distinctive about them , except that his black necktie was worn rather high , like a stock , and secured by a gold pin with some grotesque head to it .
" It was a very long gold pin , and had the carved head of a monkey or some such thing ," continued the cleric ; " and it was fixed in a rather odd way -- he wore pince - nez and a broad black --"
But I ' m afraid I didn ' t describe him so very accurately after all , for his pince - nez was broken under him , and the long gold pin wasn ' t stuck through his purple scarf but through his heart ."
Though he saw it there only for a moment , though it was outlandish and incredible in costume , being clad from neck to heel in tight crimson , with glints of gold , yet he knew in one flash of moonlight who it was .
A gaudy , unnatural gold ornament on the arm suddenly reminded Kidd of Romeo and Juliet ; of course the tight crimson suit was part of the play .
It was a young woman in silvery satins of a Renascence design ; she had golden hair in two long shining ropes , and a face so startingly pale between them that she might have been chryselephantine -- made , that is , like some old Greek statues , out of ivory and gold .
They were geological experts sent to investigate the old question of the alleged supply of gold from the rocks round here , upon which ( as it was said ) the small city - state had so long maintained its credit and been able to negotiate with its neighbours even under the ceaseless bombardment of bigger armies .
" His great passion was not the much nobler dread of death , but the strange desire of gold .
For this legend of the gold he had left Grossenmark and invaded Heiligwaldenstein .
He , thought Prince Otto , could have no real reason for refusing to give up the gold .
Whatever is to be said of the policy of your family , no one for one moment imagines that you were moved by the mere gold ; you have proved yourself above the suspicion that ...'
But when the word ` gold ' was said he held out his hand as if in arrest of something , and turned away his face to the mountains .
"` He has spoken of gold ,' he said .
Otto of Grossenmark lay very peacefully among the fairy trees , and would do no more harm either with gold or steel ; only the silver pencil of the moon would pick out and trace here and there the intricate ornament of his uniform , or the old wrinkles on his brow .
There is your precious order , that lean , iron lamp , ugly and barren ; and there is anarchy , rich , living , reproducing itself -- there is anarchy , splendid in green and gold ."
Just so , Syme thought , would the brown - gold face of such a tyrant have shown against the dark green olives and the burning blue .
Early as was the hour , the sun soaked everything in warmth , and Syme was vaguely surprised to see so many spring flowers burning gold and silver in the tall grass in which the whole company stood almost knee - deep .
He could almost fancy that he heard the grass growing ; he could almost fancy that even as he stood fresh flowers were springing up and breaking into blossom in the meadow -- flowers blood red and burning gold and blue , fulfilling the whole pageant of the spring .
The man was a Norman , taller than the average of the French and very angular ; and his swarthy figure stood dark against a square of sunlight , almost like some allegoric figure of labour frescoed on a ground of gold .
The town was mostly in shadow , but the sun had not sunk ; wherever its level light could break through , it painted everything a burning gold .
But though he affected to despise the mummery , he felt a curious freedom and naturalness in his movements as the blue and gold garment fell about him ; and when he found that he had to wear a sword , it stirred a boyish dream .
Dr . Bull , the last day of Creation , wore a coat covered with heraldic animals in red and gold , and on his crest a man rampant .
The falling fire in the great cresset threw a last long gleam , like a bar of burning gold , across the dim grass .
There he saw the sister of Gregory , the girl with the gold - red hair , cutting lilac before breakfast , with the great unconscious gravity of a girl .
On examining these coins , Edmund thought that several of them looked like gold , and the girls exclaimed with great joy --" Oh , Mary !
Isabella , who had some knowledge of chemistry , discovered , by touching the coins with nitric acid , that several of them were of gold , and consequently of great value .
It was in vain to talk to Goody Grope of the danger of burying herself under the ruins , or of the improbability of her meeting with another pot of gold coins .
Mary did not yet know how much she was to suffer on account of this unfortunate pot of gold coins .
Hopkins had sold the gold coins , and some of the others ; and he flattered himself that the children , and the young ladies , to whom he now found they had been shown , could not tell whether what they had seen were gold or not , and he was not in the least apprehensive that those of Henry the Seventh ' s reign should be reclaimed from him as he thought they had escaped attention .
Mr . Harvey , in reply , observed that he could not consider as rubbish the gold coins which were amongst them when they were discovered ; and he inquired why these gold coins , and those of the reign of Henry the Seventh , were not now sent to him .
" And don ' t you recollect , Mary , your picking out the gold ones , and telling Mr . Hopkins that they were gold ; and he said you knew nothing of the matter ; and I was going to tell him that Miss Isabella had tried them , and knew that they were gold ?
but just then there came in some tenants to pay their rent , and he pushed us out , and twitched from my hand the piece of gold which I had taken up to show him the bright spot which Miss Isabella had cleaned by the stuff that she had poured on it ?
Where ' s the gold that you found at Rossmore Castle ?"
Mr . Hopkins , the agent , and his friends , constantly repeated that the gold coins were taken away in coming from their house to his ; and these ladies were blamed by many people for continuing to countenance those that were , with great reason , suspected to be thieves .
Think of the luck of these childer , that have found a pot of gold , and such great , grand friends , and a slated house , and all : and here am I , with scarce a rag to cover me , and not a potato to put into my mouth !-- I , that have been looking under ground all my days for treasure , not to have a halfpenny at the last , to buy me tobacco !"
interrupted Goody Grope ; " don ' t be prating ; don ' t I know as well as you do , that they found a pot of gold , BY GOOD LUCK ?
Why ," continued he , turning to the harper , " I ask your pardon for speaking out so free before strangers in praise of my own , which I know is not mannerly ; but the truth is the fittest thing to be spoken , as I think , at all times ; therefore , here ' s your good health , Susan ; why , by - and - by she ' ll be worth her weight in gold -- in silver at least .
" Mr . Young , College Salt Bearer ; white and gold dress , rich satin bag , covered with gold netting .
" Mr . Mansfield , Oppidan , white , purple , and orange dress , trimmed with silver ; rich satin bag , purple and silver : each carrying elegant poles , with gold and silver cord .
LANDLADY -- MR . FINSBURY , a man - milliner , with bandboxes -- a fancy cap , or helmet , with feathers , in the Landlady ' s hand -- a satin bag , covered with gold netting , in the man - milliner ' s hand -- a mantle hanging over his arm .
That is Mr . Hector Hogmorton ' s fancy cap , ma ' m ; and here , ma ' m , is Mr . Saul ' s rich satin bag , covered with gold net .
He is college salt bearer , I understand , and has a prodigious superb white and gold dress .
She ' s a particular favourite of mine , you must know ; and I mean to do her a piece of service the first opportunity , by saying something or other , that shall go round to her relations in Northumberland , and make them do something for her ; as well they may , for they are all rolling in gold , and won ' t give her a penny ."
Silver won ' t do for so many ; gold is what must cross my hand ."
" I have no gold ," said Fisher , " and I don ' t know what you mean by ' so many .'
It wanted neither gold , pearls nor precious stones to give it value .
I wish your fruit could make him well , and it would be worth its weight in gold to me , at least .
With the money he had earned by two months ' trading in fruit he laid in a large stock of what appeared to these little merchants a stock of almonds and sugar - plums , and he painted in capital gold coloured letters upon his board , " Sweetest , largest , most admirable sugar - plums of all colours ever sold in Naples , to be had here ; and in gratitude to his numerous customers , Piedro adds to these , ' Burnt almonds gratis .
Paintings of great value , besides ornaments of gold and silver , antique bracelets , rings , etc ., are from time to time found amongst these ruins , and therefore it is necessary that no person should be admitted whose honesty cannot be depended upon .
Look you here ," said he , producing an old gold coin .
I have many pieces of gold like this .
Digging in my father ' s garden , it was my luck to come to an old Roman vessel full of gold .
Do you know he has found a treasure , he says , in his father ' s garden -- a vase full of gold ?
He showed me one of the gold pieces ."
Piedro had never found any treasure in his father ' s garden , but he came by his gold in the following manner :--
In summer time , the town is sweet to see ; full of fine maples -- long avenues of green and gold .
Another runs to read the bill that ' s stuck against the spile upon the wharf to which the ship is moored , offering five hundred gold coins for the apprehension of a parricide , and containing a description of his person .
Then the Captain knows that Jonah is a fugitive ; but at the same time resolves to help a flight that paves its rear with gold .
It was an exceedingly LONG LAY that , indeed ; and though from the magnitude of the figure it might at first deceive a landsman , yet the slightest consideration will show that though seven hundred and seventy - seven is a pretty large number , yet , when you come to make a TEENTH of it , you will then see , I say , that the seven hundred and seventy - seventh part of a farthing is a good deal less than seven hundred and seventy - seven gold doubloons ; and so I thought at the time .
who didst not refuse to the swart convict , Bunyan , the pale , poetic pearl ; Thou who didst clothe with doubly hammered leaves of finest gold , the stumped and paupered arm of old Cervantes ; Thou who didst pick up Andrew Jackson from the pebbles ; who didst hurl him upon a war - horse ; who didst thunder him higher than a throne !
d ' ye see this Spanish ounce of gold ?"
While the mate was getting the hammer , Ahab , without speaking , was slowly rubbing the gold piece against the skirts of his jacket , as if to heighten its lustre , and without using any words was meanwhile lowly humming to himself , producing a sound so strangely muffled and inarticulate that it seemed the mechanical humming of the wheels of his vitality in him .
Receiving the top - maul from Starbuck , he advanced towards the main - mast with the hammer uplifted in one hand , exhibiting the gold with the other , and with a high raised voice exclaiming : " Whosoever of ye raises me a white - headed whale with a wrinkled brow and a crooked jaw ; whosoever of ye raises me that white - headed whale , with three holes punctured in his starboard fluke -- look ye , whosoever of ye raises me that same white whale , he shall have this gold ounce , my boys !"
cried the seamen , as with swinging tarpaulins they hailed the act of nailing the gold to the mast .
The gold brow plumbs the blue .
' Tis iron -- that I know -- not gold .
The hated whale has the round watery world to swim in , as the small gold - fish has its glassy globe .
The flashing cascade of his mane , the curving comet of his tail , invested him with housings more resplendent than gold and silver - beaters could have furnished him .
Hurrah for the gold cup of sperm oil , my heroes !
When reaching far over the bow , Stubb slowly churned his long sharp lance into the fish , and kept it there , carefully churning and churning , as if cautiously seeking to feel after some gold watch that the whale might have swallowed , and which he was fearful of breaking ere he could hook it out .
But that gold watch he sought was the innermost life of the fish .
In this business he proceeds very heedfully , like a treasure - hunter in some old house , sounding the walls to find where the gold is masoned in .
Those narrow straits of Sunda divide Sumatra from Java ; and standing midway in that vast rampart of islands , buttressed by that bold green promontory , known to seamen as Java Head ; they not a little correspond to the central gateway opening into some vast walled empire : and considering the inexhaustible wealth of spices , and silks , and jewels , and gold , and ivory , with which the thousand islands of that oriental sea are enriched , it seems a significant provision of nature , that such treasures , by the very formation of the land , should at least bear the appearance , however ineffectual , of being guarded from the all - grasping western world .
In his treatise on " Queen - Gold ," or Queen - pinmoney , an old King ' s Bench author , one William Prynne , thus discourseth : " Ye tail is ye Queen ' s , that ye Queen ' s wardrobe may be supplied with ye whalebone ."
His boat ' s crew were all in high excitement , eagerly helping their chief , and looking as anxious as gold - hunters .
And this , good friends , is ambergris , worth a gold guinea an ounce to any druggist .
It was a beautiful , bounteous , blue day ; the spangled sea calm and cool , and flatly stretching away , all round , to the horizon , like gold - beater ' s skin hammered out to the extremest .
When he halted before the binnacle , with his glance fastened on the pointed needle in the compass , that glance shot like a javelin with the pointed intensity of his purpose ; and when resuming his walk he again paused before the mainmast , then , as the same riveted glance fastened upon the riveted gold coin there , he still wore the same aspect of nailed firmness , only dashed with a certain wild longing , if not hopefulness .
Now this doubloon was of purest , virgin gold , raked somewhere out of the heart of gorgeous hills , whence , east and west , over golden sands , the head - waters of many a Pactolus flows .
Here palms , alpacas , and volcanoes ; sun ' s disks and stars ; ecliptics , horns - of - plenty , and rich banners waving , are in luxuriant profusion stamped ; so that the precious gold seems almost to derive an added preciousness and enhancing glories , by passing through those fancy mints , so Spanishly poetic .
The firm tower , that is Ahab ; the volcano , that is Ahab ; the courageous , the undaunted , and victorious fowl , that , too , is Ahab ; all are Ahab ; and this round gold is but the image of the rounder globe , which , like a magician ' s glass , to each and every man in turn but mirrors back his own mysterious self .
" No fairy fingers can have pressed the gold , but devil ' s claws must have left their mouldings there since yesterday ," murmured Starbuck to himself , leaning against the bulwarks .
And all from looking at a piece of gold , which did I have it now on Negro Hill or in Corlaer ' s Hook , I ' d not look at it very long ere spending it .
I have seen doubloons before now in my voyagings ; your doubloons of old Spain , your doubloons of Peru , your doubloons of Chili , your doubloons of Bolivia , your doubloons of Popayan ; with plenty of gold moidores and pistoles , and joes , and half joes , and quarter joes .
" I see nothing here , but a round thing made of gold , and whoever raises a certain whale , this round thing belongs to him .
The horse - shoe sign ; for there it is , right opposite the gold .
Oh , the gold !
the precious , precious , gold !
jingling the leathern bag , as if it were full of gold coins .
The sea was as a crucible of molten gold , that bubblingly leaps with light and heat .
What an odd feeling , now , when a black boy ' s host to white men with gold lace upon their coats !-- Monsieurs , have ye seen one Pip ?-- a little negro lad , five feet high , hang - dog look , and cowardly !
-- Then advancing towards the doubloon in the main - mast --" Men , this gold is mine , for I earned it ; but I shall let it abide here till the White Whale is dead ; and then , whosoever of ye first raises him , upon the day he shall be killed , this gold is that man ' s ; and if on that day I shall again raise him , then , ten times its sum shall be divided among all of ye !
A whole hour now passed ; gold - beaten out to ages .
Nor had they yet among the sons of Eve Got them new names , till , wandering o ' er the earth , Through God ' s high sufferance for the trial of man , By falsities and lies the greatest part Of mankind they corrupted to forsake God their Creator , and th ' invisible Glory of him that made them to transform Oft to the image of a brute , adorned With gay religions full of pomp and gold , And devils to adore for deities : Then were they known to men by various names , And various idols through the heathen world .
Nor did Israel scape Th ' infection , when their borrowed gold composed The calf in Oreb ; and the rebel king Doubled that sin in Bethel and in Dan , Likening his Maker to the grazed ox -- Jehovah , who , in one night , when he passed From Egypt marching , equalled with one stroke Both her first - born and all her bleating gods .
Mammon led them on -- Mammon , the least erected Spirit that fell From Heaven ; for even in Heaven his looks and thoughts Were always downward bent , admiring more The riches of heaven ' s pavement , trodden gold , Than aught divine or holy else enjoyed In vision beatific .
Soon had his crew Opened into the hill a spacious wound , And digged out ribs of gold .
Anon out of the earth a fabric huge Rose like an exhalation , with the sound Of dulcet symphonies and voices sweet -- Built like a temple , where pilasters round Were set , and Doric pillars overlaid With golden architrave ; nor did there want Cornice or frieze , with bossy sculptures graven ; The roof was fretted gold .
High on a throne of royal state , which far Outshone the wealth or Ormus and of Ind , Or where the gorgeous East with richest hand Showers on her kings barbaric pearl and gold , Satan exalted sat , by merit raised To that bad eminence ; and , from despair Thus high uplifted beyond hope , aspires Beyond thus high , insatiate to pursue Vain war with Heaven ; and , by success untaught , His proud imaginations thus displayed :-- " Powers and Dominions , Deities of Heaven !-- For , since no deep within her gulf can hold Immortal vigour , though oppressed and fallen , I give not Heaven for lost : from this descent Celestial Virtues rising will appear More glorious and more dread than from no fall , And trust themselves to fear no second fate !-- Me though just right , and the fixed laws of Heaven , Did first create your leader -- next , free choice With what besides in council or in fight Hath been achieved of merit -- yet this loss , Thus far at least recovered , hath much more Established in a safe , unenvied throne , Yielded with full consent .
This desert soil Wants not her hidden lustre , gems and gold ; Nor want we skill or art from whence to raise Magnificence ; and what can Heaven show more ?
As when a gryphon through the wilderness With winged course , o ' er hill or moory dale , Pursues the Arimaspian , who by stealth Had from his wakeful custody purloined The guarded gold ; so eagerly the Fiend O ' er bog or steep , through strait , rough , dense , or rare , With head , hands , wings , or feet , pursues his way , And swims , or sinks , or wades , or creeps , or flies .
No sooner had the Almighty ceased , but all The multitude of Angels , with a shout Loud as from numbers without number , sweet As from blest voices , uttering joy , Heaven rung With jubilee , and loud Hosannas filled The eternal regions : Lowly reverent Towards either throne they bow , and to the ground With solemn adoration down they cast Their crowns inwove with amarant and gold ; Immortal amarant , a flower which once In Paradise , fast by the tree of life , Began to bloom ; but soon for man ' s offence To Heaven removed , where first it grew , there grows , And flowers aloft shading the fount of life , And where the river of bliss through midst of Heaven Rolls o ' er Elysian flowers her amber stream ; With these that never fade the Spirits elect Bind their resplendent locks inwreathed with beams ; Now in loose garlands thick thrown off , the bright Pavement , that like a sea of jasper shone , Impurpled with celestial roses smiled .
All this dark globe the Fiend found as he passed , And long he wandered , till at last a gleam Of dawning light turned thither - ward in haste His travelled steps : far distant he descries Ascending by degrees magnificent Up to the wall of Heaven a structure high ; At top whereof , but far more rich , appeared The work as of a kingly palace - gate , With frontispiece of diamond and gold Embellished ; thick with sparkling orient gems The portal shone , inimitable on earth By model , or by shading pencil , drawn .
Satan from hence , now on the lower stair , That scaled by steps of gold to Heaven - gate , Looks down with wonder at the sudden view Of all this world at once .
The place he found beyond expression bright , Compared with aught on earth , metal or stone ; Not all parts like , but all alike informed With radiant light , as glowing iron with fire ; If metal , part seemed gold , part silver clear ; If stone , carbuncle most or chrysolite , Ruby or topaz , to the twelve that shone In Aaron ' s breast - plate , and a stone besides Imagined rather oft than elsewhere seen , That stone , or like to that which here below Philosophers in vain so long have sought , In vain , though by their powerful art they bind Volatile Hermes , and call up unbound In various shapes old Proteus from the sea , Drained through a limbeck to his native form .
What wonder then if fields and regions here Breathe forth Elixir pure , and rivers run Potable gold , when with one virtuous touch The arch - chemick sun , so far from us remote , Produces , with terrestrial humour mixed , Here in the dark so many precious things Of colour glorious , and effect so rare ?
But first he casts to change his proper shape , Which else might work him danger or delay : And now a stripling Cherub he appears , Not of the prime , yet such as in his face Youth smiled celestial , and to every limb Suitable grace diffused , so well he feigned : Under a coronet his flowing hair In curls on either cheek played ; wings he wore Of many a coloured plume , sprinkled with gold ; His habit fit for speed succinct , and held Before his decent steps a silver wand .
Beneath him with new wonder now he views , To all delight of human sense exposed , In narrow room , Nature ' s whole wealth , yea more , A Heaven on Earth : For blissful Paradise Of God the garden was , by him in the east Of Eden planted ; Eden stretched her line From Auran eastward to the royal towers Of great Seleucia , built by Grecian kings , Of where the sons of Eden long before Dwelt in Telassar : In this pleasant soil His far more pleasant garden God ordained ; Out of the fertile ground he caused to grow All trees of noblest kind for sight , smell , taste ; And all amid them stood the tree of life , High eminent , blooming ambrosial fruit Of vegetable gold ; and next to life , Our death , the tree of knowledge , grew fast by , Knowledge of good bought dear by knowing ill . Southward through Eden went a river large , Nor changed his course , but through the shaggy hill Passed underneath ingulfed ; for God had thrown That mountain as his garden - mould high raised Upon the rapid current , which , through veins Of porous earth with kindly thirst up - drawn , Rose a fresh fountain , and with many a rill Watered the garden ; thence united fell Down the steep glade , and met the nether flood , Which from his darksome passage now appears , And now , divided into four main streams , Runs diverse , wandering many a famous realm And country , whereof here needs no account ; But rather to tell how , if Art could tell , How from that sapphire fount the crisped brooks , Rolling on orient pearl and sands of gold , With mazy errour under pendant shades Ran nectar , visiting each plant , and fed Flowers worthy of Paradise , which not nice Art In beds and curious knots , but Nature boon Poured forth profuse on hill , and dale , and plain , Both where the morning sun first warmly smote The open field , and where the unpierced shade Imbrowned the noontide bowers : Thus was this place A happy rural seat of various view ; Groves whose rich trees wept odorous gums and balm , Others whose fruit , burnished with golden rind , Hung amiable , Hesperian fables true , If true , here only , and of delicious taste : Betwixt them lawns , or level downs , and flocks Grazing the tender herb , were interposed , Or palmy hillock ; or the flowery lap Of some irriguous valley spread her store , Flowers of all hue , and without thorn the rose : Another side , umbrageous grots and caves Of cool recess , o ' er which the mantling vine Lays forth her purple grape , and gently creeps Luxuriant ; mean while murmuring waters fall Down the slope hills , dispersed , or in a lake , That to the fringed bank with myrtle crowned Her crystal mirrour holds , unite their streams .
So spake our general mother , and with eyes Of conjugal attraction unreproved , And meek surrender , half - embracing leaned On our first father ; half her swelling breast Naked met his , under the flowing gold Of her loose tresses hid : he in delight Both of her beauty , and submissive charms , Smiled with superiour love , as Jupiter On Juno smiles , when he impregns the clouds That shed Mayflowers ; and pressed her matron lip With kisses pure : Aside the Devil turned For envy ; yet with jealous leer malign Eyed them askance , and to himself thus plained .
Betwixt these rocky pillars Gabriel sat , Chief of the angelick guards , awaiting night ; About him exercised heroick games The unarmed youth of Heaven , but nigh at hand Celestial armoury , shields , helms , and spears , Hung high with diamond flaming , and with gold .
So promised he ; and Uriel to his charge Returned on that bright beam , whose point now raised Bore him slope downward to the sun now fallen Beneath the Azores ; whether the prime orb , Incredible how swift , had thither rolled Diurnal , or this less volubil earth , By shorter flight to the east , had left him there Arraying with reflected purple and gold The clouds that on his western throne attend .
Ye Mists and Exhalations , that now rise From hill or steaming lake , dusky or gray , Till the sun paint your fleecy skirts with gold , In honour to the world ' s great Author rise ; Whether to deck with clouds the uncoloured sky , Or wet the thirsty earth with falling showers , Rising or falling still advance his praise .
At once on the eastern cliff of Paradise He lights , and to his proper shape returns A Seraph winged : Six wings he wore , to shade His lineaments divine ; the pair that clad Each shoulder broad , came mantling o ' er his breast With regal ornament ; the middle pair Girt like a starry zone his waist , and round Skirted his loins and thighs with downy gold And colours dipt in Heaven ; the third his feet Shadowed from either heel with feathered mail , Sky - tinctured grain .
Mean while our primitive great sire , to meet His God - like guest , walks forth , without more train Accompanied than with his own complete Perfections ; in himself was all his state , More solemn than the tedious pomp that waits On princes , when their rich retinue long Of horses led , and grooms besmeared with gold , Dazzles the croud , and sets them all agape .
So down they sat , And to their viands fell ; nor seemingly The Angel , nor in mist , the common gloss Of Theologians ; but with keen dispatch Of real hunger , and concoctive heat To transubstantiate : What redounds , transpires Through Spirits with ease ; nor wonder ; if by fire Of sooty coal the empirick alchemist Can turn , or holds it possible to turn , Metals of drossiest ore to perfect gold , As from the mine .
Evening now approached , ( For we have also our evening and our morn , We ours for change delectable , not need ;) Forthwith from dance to sweet repast they turn Desirous ; all in circles as they stood , Tables are set , and on a sudden piled With Angels food , and rubied nectar flows In pearl , in diamond , and massy gold , Fruit of delicious vines , the growth of Heaven .
Regions they passed , the mighty regencies Of Seraphim , and Potentates , and Thrones , In their triple degrees ; regions to which All thy dominion , Adam , is no more Than what this garden is to all the earth , And all the sea , from one entire globose Stretched into longitude ; which having passed , At length into the limits of the north They came ; and Satan to his royal seat High on a hill , far blazing , as a mount Raised on a mount , with pyramids and towers From diamond quarries hewn , and rocks of gold ; The palace of great Lucifer , ( so call That structure in the dialect of men Interpreted ,) which not long after , he Affecting all equality with God , In imitation of that mount whereon Messiah was declared in sight of Heaven , The Mountain of the Congregation called ; For thither he assembled all his train , Pretending so commanded to consult About the great reception of their King , Thither to come , and with calumnious art Of counterfeited truth thus held their ears .
There is a cave Within the mount of God , fast by his throne , Where light and darkness in perpetual round Lodge and dislodge by turns , which makes through Heaven Grateful vicissitude , like day and night ; Light issues forth , and at the other door Obsequious darkness enters , till her hour To veil the Heaven , though darkness there might well Seem twilight here : And now went forth the Morn Such as in highest Heaven arrayed in gold Empyreal ; from before her vanished Night , Shot through with orient beams ; when all the plain Covered with thick embattled squadrons bright , Chariots , and flaming arms , and fiery steeds , Reflecting blaze on blaze , first met his view : War he perceived , war in procinct ; and found Already known what he for news had thought To have reported : Gladly then he mixed Among those friendly Powers , who him received With joy and acclamations loud , that one , That of so many myriads fallen , yet one Returned not lost .
High in the midst , exalted as a God , The Apostate in his sun - bright chariot sat , Idol of majesty divine , enclosed With flaming Cherubim , and golden shields ; Then lighted from his gorgeous throne , for now " twixt host and host but narrow space was left , A dreadful interval , and front to front Presented stood in terrible array Of hideous length : Before the cloudy van , On the rough edge of battle ere it joined , Satan , with vast and haughty strides advanced , Came towering , armed in adamant and gold ; Abdiel that sight endured not , where he stood Among the mightiest , bent on highest deeds , And thus his own undaunted heart explores .
Which of us who beholds the bright surface Of this ethereous mould whereon we stand , This continent of spacious Heaven , adorned With plant , fruit , flower ambrosial , gems , and gold ; Whose eye so superficially surveys These things , as not to mind from whence they grow Deep under ground , materials dark and crude , Of spiritous and fiery spume , till touched With Heaven ' s ray , and tempered , they shoot forth So beauteous , opening to the ambient light ?
Forthwith the sounds and seas , each creek and bay , With fry innumerable swarm , and shoals Of fish that with their fins , and shining scales , Glide under the green wave , in sculls that oft Bank the mid sea : part single , or with mate , Graze the sea - weed their pasture , and through groves Of coral stray ; or , sporting with quick glance , Show to the sun their waved coats dropt with gold ; Or , in their pearly shells at ease , attend Moist nutriment ; or under rocks their food In jointed armour watch : on smooth the seal And bended dolphins play : part huge of bulk Wallowing unwieldy , enormous in their gait , Tempest the ocean : there leviathan , Hugest of living creatures , on the deep Stretched like a promontory sleeps or swims , And seems a moving land ; and at his gills Draws in , and at his trunk spouts out , a sea .
At once came forth whatever creeps the ground , Insect or worm : those waved their limber fans For wings , and smallest lineaments exact In all the liveries decked of summer ' s pride With spots of gold and purple , azure and green : These , as a line , their long dimension drew , Streaking the ground with sinuous trace ; not all Minims of nature ; some of serpent - kind , Wonderous in length and corpulence , involved Their snaky folds , and added wings .
So sung The glorious train ascending : He through Heaven , That opened wide her blazing portals , led To God ' s eternal house direct the way ; A broad and ample road , whose dust is gold And pavement stars , as stars to thee appear , Seen in the galaxy , that milky way , Which nightly , as a circling zone , thou seest Powdered with stars .
In bower and field he sought , where any tuft Of grove or garden - plot more pleasant lay , Their tendance , or plantation for delight ; By fountain or by shady rivulet He sought them both , but wished his hap might find Eve separate ; he wished , but not with hope Of what so seldom chanced ; when to his wish , Beyond his hope , Eve separate he spies , Veiled in a cloud of fragrance , where she stood , Half spied , so thick the roses blushing round About her glowed , oft stooping to support Each flower of slender stalk , whose head , though gay Carnation , purple , azure , or specked with gold , Hung drooping unsustained ; them she upstays Gently with myrtle band , mindless the while Herself , though fairest unsupported flower , From her best prop so far , and storm so nigh .
his head Crested aloft , and carbuncle his eyes ; With burnished neck of verdant gold , erect Amidst his circling spires , that on the grass Floated redundant : pleasing was his shape And lovely ; never since of serpent - kind Lovelier , not those that in Illyria changed , Hermione and Cadmus , or the god In Epidaurus ; nor to which transformed Ammonian Jove , or Capitoline , was seen ; He with Olympias ; this with her who bore Scipio , the highth of Rome .
Easy to me it is to tell thee all What thou commandest ; and right thou shouldst be obeyed : I was at first as other beasts that graze The trodden herb , of abject thoughts and low , As was my food ; nor aught but food discerned Or sex , and apprehended nothing high : Till , on a day roving the field , I chanced A goodly tree far distant to behold Loaden with fruit of fairest colours mixed , Ruddy and gold : I nearer drew to gaze ; When from the boughs a savoury odour blown , Grateful to appetite , more pleased my sense Than smell of sweetest fennel , or the teats Of ewe or goat dropping with milk at even , Unsucked of lamb or kid , that tend their play .
Thus , laws and rites Established , such delight hath God in Men Obedient to his will , that he vouchsafes Among them to set up his tabernacle ; The Holy One with mortal Men to dwell : By his prescript a sanctuary is framed Of cedar , overlaid with gold ; therein An ark , and in the ark his testimony , The records of his covenant ; over these A mercy - seat of gold , between the wings Of two bright Cherubim ; before him burn Seven lamps as in a zodiack representing The heavenly fires ; over the tent a cloud Shall rest by day , a fiery gleam by night ; Save when they journey , and at length they come , Conducted by his Angel , to the land Promised to Abraham and his seed :-- The rest Were long to tell ; how many battles fought How many kings destroyed ; and kingdoms won ; Or how the sun shall in mid Heaven stand still A day entire , and night ' s due course adjourn , Man ' s voice commanding , ' Sun , in Gibeon stand , ' And thou moon in the vale of Aialon , ' Till Israel overcome !
Returned from Babylon by leave of kings Their lords , whom God disposed , the house of God They first re - edify ; and for a while In mean estate live moderate ; till , grown In wealth and multitude , factious they grow ; But first among the priests dissention springs , Men who attend the altar , and should most Endeavour peace : their strife pollution brings Upon the temple itself : at last they seise The scepter , and regard not David ' s sons ; Then lose it to a stranger , that the true Anointed King Messiah might be born Barred of his right ; yet at his birth a star , Unseen before in Heaven , proclaims him come ; And guides the eastern sages , who inquire His place , to offer incense , myrrh , and gold : His place of birth a solemn Angel tells To simple shepherds , keeping watch by night ; They gladly thither haste , and by a quire Of squadroned Angels hear his carol sung .
Octauius , I haue seene more dayes then you , And though we lay these Honours on this man , To ease our selues of diuers sland ' rous loads , He shall but beare them , as the Asse beares Gold , To groane and swet vnder the Businesse , Either led or driuen , as we point the way : And hauing brought our Treasure , where we will , Then take we downe his Load , and turne him off ( Like to the empty Asse ) to shake his eares , And graze in Commons
Let me tell you Cassius , you your selfe Are much condemn ' d to haue an itching Palme , To sell , and Mart your Offices for Gold To Vndeseruers
I did send to you For certaine summes of Gold , which you deny ' d me , For I can raise no money by vile meanes : By Heauen , I had rather Coine my Heart , And drop my blood for Drachmaes , then to wring From the hard hands of Peazants , their vile trash By any indirection .
I did send To you for Gold to pay my Legions , Which you deny ' d me : was that done like Cassius ?
There is my Dagger , And heere my naked Breast : Within , a Heart Deerer then Pluto ' s Mine , Richer then Gold : If that thou bee ' st a Roman , take it foorth .
I that deny ' d thee Gold , will giue my Heart : Strike as thou did ' st at Caesar : For I know , When thou did ' st hate him worst , y loued ' st him better Then euer thou loued ' st Cassius
Pray God your voice like a peece of vncurrant Gold be not crack ' d within the ring .
And thy haire Thou other Gold - bound - brow , is like the first : A third , is like the former .
land of gold !
15 The pure contralto sings in the organ loft , The carpenter dresses his plank , the tongue of his foreplane whistles its wild ascending lisp , The married and unmarried children ride home to their Thanksgiving dinner , The pilot seizes the king - pin , he heaves down with a strong arm , The mate stands braced in the whale - boat , lance and harpoon are ready , The duck - shooter walks by silent and cautious stretches , The deacons are ordain ' d with cross ' d hands at the altar , The spinning - girl retreats and advances to the hum of the big wheel , The farmer stops by the bars as he walks on a First - day loafe and looks at the oats and rye , The lunatic is carried at last to the asylum a confirm ' d case , ( He will never sleep any more as he did in the cot in his mother ' s bed - room ;) The jour printer with gray head and gaunt jaws works at his case , He turns his quid of tobacco while his eyes blurr with the manuscript ; The malform ' d limbs are tied to the surgeon ' s table , What is removed drops horribly in a pail ; The quadroon girl is sold at the auction - stand , the drunkard nods by the bar - room stove , The machinist rolls up his sleeves , the policeman travels his beat , the gate - keeper marks who pass , The young fellow drives the express - wagon , ( I love him , though I do not know him ;) The half - breed straps on his light boots to compete in the race , The western turkey - shooting draws old and young , some lean on their rifles , some sit on logs , Out from the crowd steps the marksman , takes his position , levels his piece ; The groups of newly - come immigrants cover the wharf or levee , As the woolly - pates hoe in the sugar - field , the overseer views them from his saddle , The bugle calls in the ball - room , the gentlemen run for their partners , the dancers bow to each other , The youth lies awake in the cedar - roof ' d garret and harks to the musical rain , The Wolverine sets traps on the creek that helps fill the Huron , The squaw wrapt in her yellow - hemm ' d cloth is offering moccasins and bead - bags for sale , The connoisseur peers along the exhibition - gallery with half - shut eyes bent sideways , As the deck - hands make fast the steamboat the plank is thrown for the shore - going passengers , The young sister holds out the skein while the elder sister winds it off in a ball , and stops now and then for the knots , The one - year wife is recovering and happy having a week ago borne her first child , The clean - hair ' d Yankee girl works with her sewing - machine or in the factory or mill , The paving - man leans on his two - handed rammer , the reporter ' s lead flies swiftly over the note - book , the sign - painter is lettering with blue and gold , The canal boy trots on the tow - path , the book - keeper counts at his desk , the shoemaker waxes his thread , The conductor beats time for the band and all the performers follow him , The child is baptized , the convert is making his first professions , The regatta is spread on the bay , the race is begun , ( how the white sails sparkle !)
By the city ' s quadrangular houses -- in log huts , camping with lumber - men , Along the ruts of the turnpike , along the dry gulch and rivulet bed , Weeding my onion - patch or hosing rows of carrots and parsnips , crossing savannas , trailing in forests , Prospecting , gold - digging , girdling the trees of a new purchase , Scorch ' d ankle - deep by the hot sand , hauling my boat down the shallow river , Where the panther walks to and fro on a limb overhead , where the buck turns furiously at the hunter , Where the rattlesnake suns his flabby length on a rock , where the otter is feeding on fish , Where the alligator in his tough pimples sleeps by the bayou , Where the black bear is searching for roots or honey , where the beaver pats the mud with his paddle - shaped tall ; Over the growing sugar , over the yellow - flower ' d cotton plant , over the rice in its low moist field , Over the sharp - peak ' d farm house , with its scallop ' d scum and slender shoots from the gutters , Over the western persimmon , over the long - leav ' d corn , over the delicate blue - flower flax , Over the white and brown buckwheat , a hummer and buzzer there with the rest , Over the dusky green of the rye as it ripples and shades in the breeze ; Scaling mountains , pulling myself cautiously up , holding on by low scragged limbs , Walking the path worn in the grass and beat through the leaves of the brush , Where the quail is whistling betwixt the woods and the wheat - lot , Where the bat flies in the Seventh - month eve , where the great goldbug drops through the dark , Where the brook puts out of the roots of the old tree and flows to the meadow , Where cattle stand and shake away flies with the tremulous shuddering of their hides , Where the cheese - cloth hangs in the kitchen , where andirons straddle the hearth - slab , where cobwebs fall in festoons from the rafters ; Where trip - hammers crash , where the press is whirling its cylinders , Wherever the human heart beats with terrible throes under its ribs , Where the pear - shaped balloon is floating aloft , ( floating in it myself and looking composedly down ,) Where the life - car is drawn on the slip - noose , where the heat hatches pale - green eggs in the dented sand , Where the she - whale swims with her calf and never forsakes it , Where the steam - ship trails hind - ways its long pennant of smoke , Where the fin of the shark cuts like a black chip out of the water , Where the half - burn ' d brig is riding on unknown currents , Where shells grow to her slimy deck , where the dead are corrupting below ; Where the dense - starr ' d flag is borne at the head of the regiments , Approaching Manhattan up by the long - stretching island , Under Niagara , the cataract falling like a veil over my countenance , Upon a door - step , upon the horse - block of hard wood outside , Upon the race - course , or enjoying picnics or jigs or a good game of base - ball , At he - festivals , with blackguard gibes , ironical license , bull - dances , drinking , laughter , At the cider - mill tasting the sweets of the brown mash , sucking the juice through a straw , At apple - peelings wanting kisses for all the red fruit I find , At musters , beach - parties , friendly bees , huskings , house - raisings ; Where the mocking - bird sounds his delicious gurgles , cackles , screams , weeps , Where the hay - rick stands in the barn - yard , where the dry - stalks are scatter ' d , where the brood - cow waits in the hovel , Where the bull advances to do his masculine work , where the stud to the mare , where the cock is treading the hen , Where the heifers browse , where geese nip their food with short jerks , Where sun - down shadows lengthen over the limitless and lonesome prairie , Where herds of buffalo make a crawling spread of the square miles far and near , Where the humming - bird shimmers , where the neck of the long - lived swan is curving and winding , Where the laughing - gull scoots by the shore , where she laughs her near - human laugh , Where bee - hives range on a gray bench in the garden half hid by the high weeds , Where band - neck ' d partridges roost in a ring on the ground with their heads out , Where burial coaches enter the arch ' d gates of a cemetery , Where winter wolves bark amid wastes of snow and icicled trees , Where the yellow - crown ' d heron comes to the edge of the marsh at night and feeds upon small crabs , Where the splash of swimmers and divers cools the warm noon , Where the katy - did works her chromatic reed on the walnut - tree over the well , Through patches of citrons and cucumbers with silver - wired leaves , Through the salt - lick or orange glade , or under conical firs , Through the gymnasium , through the curtain ' d saloon , through the office or public hall ; Pleas ' d with the native and pleas ' d with the foreign , pleas ' d with the new and old , Pleas ' d with the homely woman as well as the handsome , Pleas ' d with the quakeress as she puts off her bonnet and talks melodiously , Pleas ' d with the tune of the choir of the whitewash ' d church , Pleas ' d with the earnest words of the sweating Methodist preacher , impress ' d seriously at the camp - meeting ; Looking in at the shop - windows of Broadway the whole forenoon , flatting the flesh of my nose on the thick plate glass , Wandering the same afternoon with my face turn ' d up to the clouds , or down a lane or along the beach , My right and left arms round the sides of two friends , and I in the middle ; Coming home with the silent and dark - cheek ' d bush - boy , ( behind me he rides at the drape of the day ,) Far from the settlements studying the print of animals ' feet , or the moccasin print , By the cot in the hospital reaching lemonade to a feverish patient , Nigh the coffin ' d corpse when all is still , examining with a candle ; Voyaging to every port to dicker and adventure , Hurrying with the modern crowd as eager and fickle as any , Hot toward one I hate , ready in my madness to knife him , Solitary at midnight in my back yard , my thoughts gone from me a long while , Walking the old hills of Judaea with the beautiful gentle God by my side , Speeding through space , speeding through heaven and the stars , Speeding amid the seven satellites and the broad ring , and the diameter of eighty thousand miles , Speeding with tail ' d meteors , throwing fire - balls like the rest , Carrying the crescent child that carries its own full mother in its belly , Storming , enjoying , planning , loving , cautioning , Backing and filling , appearing and disappearing , I tread day and night such roads .
I see the highlands of Abyssinia , I see flocks of goats feeding , and see the fig - tree , tamarind , date , And see fields of teff - wheat and places of verdure and gold .
2 Welcome are all earth ' s lands , each for its kind , Welcome are lands of pine and oak , Welcome are lands of the lemon and fig , Welcome are lands of gold , Welcome are lands of wheat and maize , welcome those of the grape , Welcome are lands of sugar and rice , Welcome the cotton - lands , welcome those of the white potato and sweet potato , Welcome are mountains , flats , sands , forests , prairies , Welcome the rich borders of rivers , table - lands , openings , Welcome the measureless grazing - lands , welcome the teeming soil of orchards , flax , honey , hemp ; Welcome just as much the other more hard - faced lands , Lands rich as lands of gold or wheat and fruit lands , Lands of mines , lands of the manly and rugged ores , Lands of coal , copper , lead , tin , zinc , Lands of iron -- lands of the make of the axe .
Mark , thy interminable farms , North , South , Thy wealthy daughter - states , Eastern and Western , The varied products of Ohio , Pennsylvania , Missouri , Georgia , Texas , and the rest , Thy limitless crops , grass , wheat , sugar , oil , corn , rice , hemp , hops , Thy barns all fill ' d , the endless freight - train and the bulging store - house , The grapes that ripen on thy vines , the apples in thy orchards , Thy incalculable lumber , beef , pork , potatoes , thy coal , thy gold and silver , The inexhaustible iron in thy mines .
2 The flashing and golden pageant of California , The sudden and gorgeous drama , the sunny and ample lands , The long and varied stretch from Puget sound to Colorado south , Lands bathed in sweeter , rarer , healthier air , valleys and mountain cliffs , The fields of Nature long prepared and fallow , the silent , cyclic chemistry , The slow and steady ages plodding , the unoccupied surface ripening , the rich ores forming beneath ; At last the New arriving , assuming , taking possession , A swarming and busy race settling and organizing everywhere , Ships coming in from the whole round world , and going out to the whole world , To India and China and Australia and the thousand island paradises of the Pacific , Populous cities , the latest inventions , the steamers on the rivers , the railroads , with many a thrifty farm , with machinery , And wool and wheat and the grape , and diggings of yellow gold .
The new society at last , proportionate to Nature , In man of you , more than your mountain peaks or stalwart trees imperial , In woman more , far more , than all your gold or vines , or even vital air .
When the script preaches instead of the preacher , When the pulpit descends and goes instead of the carver that carved the supporting desk , When I can touch the body of books by night or by day , and when they touch my body back again , When a university course convinces like a slumbering woman and child convince , When the minted gold in the vault smiles like the night - watchman ' s daughter , When warrantee deeds loafe in chairs opposite and are my friendly companions , I intend to reach them my hand , and make as much of them as I do of men and women like you .
Painters have painted their swarming groups and the centre - figure of all , From the head of the centre - figure spreading a nimbus of gold - color ' d light , But I paint myriads of heads , but paint no head without its nimbus of gold - color ' d light , From my hand from the brain of every man and woman it streams , effulgently flowing forever .
I would bind in words retrospective some of your deeds and signs , I would sing your contest for the 19th Presidentiad , I would sing how an old man , tall , with white hair , mounted the scaffold in Virginia , ( I was at hand , silent I stood with teeth shut close , I watch ' d , I stood very near you old man when cool and indifferent , but trembling with age and your unheal ' d wounds you mounted the scaffold ;) I would sing in my copious song your census returns of the States , The tables of population and products , I would sing of your ships and their cargoes , The proud black ships of Manhattan arriving , some fill ' d with immigrants , some from the isthmus with cargoes of gold , Songs thereof would I sing , to all that hitherward comes would welcome give , And you would I sing , fair stripling !
The world below the brine , Forests at the bottom of the sea , the branches and leaves , Sea - lettuce , vast lichens , strange flowers and seeds , the thick tangle openings , and pink turf , Different colors , pale gray and green , purple , white , and gold , the play of light through the water , Dumb swimmers there among the rocks , coral , gluten , grass , rushes , and the aliment of the swimmers , Sluggish existences grazing there suspended , or slowly crawling close to the bottom , The sperm - whale at the surface blowing air and spray , or disporting with his flukes , The leaden - eyed shark , the walrus , the turtle , the hairy sea - leopard , and the sting - ray , Passions there , wars , pursuits , tribes , sight in those ocean - depths , breathing that thick - breathing air , as so many do , The change thence to the sight here , and to the subtle air breathed by beings like us who walk this sphere , The change onward from ours to that of beings who walk other spheres .
the cry everywhere , The flags flung out from the steeples of churches and from all the public buildings and stores , The tearful parting , the mother kisses her son , the son kisses his mother , ( Loth is the mother to part , yet not a word does she speak to detain him ,) The tumultuous escort , the ranks of policemen preceding , clearing the way , The unpent enthusiasm , the wild cheers of the crowd for their favorites , The artillery , the silent cannons bright as gold , drawn along , rumble lightly over the stones , ( Silent cannons , soon to cease your silence , Soon unlimber ' d to begin the red business ;) All the mutter of preparation , all the determin ' d arming , The hospital service , the lint , bandages and medicines , The women volunteering for nurses , the work begun for in earnest , no mere parade now ; War !
And the sturdy artillery , The guns bright as gold , the work for giants , to serve well the guns , Unlimber them !
Pictures of growing spring and farms and homes , With the Fourth - month eve at sundown , and the gray smoke lucid and bright , With floods of the yellow gold of the gorgeous , indolent , sinking sun , burning , expanding the air , With the fresh sweet herbage under foot , and the pale green leaves of the trees prolific , In the distance the flowing glaze , the breast of the river , with a wind - dapple here and there , With ranging hills on the banks , with many a line against the sky , and shadows , And the city at hand with dwellings so dense , and stacks of chimneys , And all the scenes of life and the workshops , and the workmen homeward returning .
Of them standing among them , one lifts to the light a west - bred face , To him the hereditary countenance bequeath ' d both mother ' s and father ' s , His first parts substances , earth , water , animals , trees , Built of the common stock , having room for far and near , Used to dispense with other lands , incarnating this land , Attracting it body and soul to himself , hanging on its neck with incomparable love , Plunging his seminal muscle into its merits and demerits , Making its cities , beginnings , events , diversities , wars , vocal in him , Making its rivers , lakes , bays , embouchure in him , Mississippi with yearly freshets and changing chutes , Columbia , Niagara , Hudson , spending themselves lovingly in him , If the Atlantic coast stretch or the Pacific coast stretch , he stretching with them North or South , Spanning between them East and West , and touching whatever is between them , Growths growing from him to offset the growths of pine , cedar , hemlock , live - oak , locust , chestnut , hickory , cottonwood , orange , magnolia , Tangles as tangled in him as any canebrake or swamp , He likening sides and peaks of mountains , forests coated with northern transparent ice , Off him pasturage sweet and natural as savanna , upland , prairie , Through him flights , whirls , screams , answering those of the fish - hawk , mocking - bird , night - heron , and eagle , His spirit surrounding his country ' s spirit , unclosed to good and evil , Surrounding the essences of real things , old times and present times , Surrounding just found shores , islands , tribes of red aborigines , Weather - beaten vessels , landings , settlements , embryo stature and muscle , The haughty defiance of the Year One , war , peace , the formation of the Constitution , The separate States , the simple elastic scheme , the immigrants , The Union always swarming with blatherers and always sure and impregnable , The unsurvey ' d interior , log - houses , clearings , wild animals , hunters , trappers , Surrounding the multiform agriculture , mines , temperature , the gestation of new States , Congress convening every Twelfth - month , the members duly coming up from the uttermost parts , Surrounding the noble character of mechanics and farmers , especially the young men , Responding their manners , speech , dress , friendships , the gait they have of persons who never knew how it felt to stand in the presence of superiors , The freshness and candor of their physiognomy , the copiousness and decision of their phrenology , The picturesque looseness of their carriage , their fierceness when wrong ' d , The fluency of their speech , their delight in music , their curiosity , good temper and open - handedness , the whole composite make , The prevailing ardor and enterprise , the large amativeness , The perfect equality of the female with the male , the fluid movement of the population , The superior marine , free commerce , fisheries , whaling , gold - digging , Wharf - hemm ' d cities , railroad and steamboat lines intersecting all points , Factories , mercantile life , labor - saving machinery , the Northeast , Northwest , Southwest , Manhattan firemen , the Yankee swap , southern plantation life , Slavery -- the murderous , treacherous conspiracy to raise it upon the ruins of all the rest , On and on to the grapple with it -- Assassin !
The scene and all its belongings , how they seize and affect me , The sad sharp - chinn ' d old man with worn clothes and broad shoulder - band of leather , Myself effusing and fluid , a phantom curiously floating , now here absorb ' d and arrested , The group , ( an unminded point set in a vast surrounding ,) The attentive , quiet children , the loud , proud , restive base of the streets , The low hoarse purr of the whirling stone , the light - press ' d blade , Diffusing , dropping , sideways - darting , in tiny showers of gold , Sparkles from the wheel .
You lofty and dazzling towers , pinnacled , red as roses , burnish ' d with gold !
The business man the acquirer vast , After assiduous years surveying results , preparing for departure , Devises houses and lands to his children , bequeaths stocks , goods , funds for a school or hospital , Leaves money to certain companions to buy tokens , souvenirs of gems and gold .
But I , my life surveying , closing , With nothing to show to devise from its idle years , Nor houses nor lands , nor tokens of gems or gold for my friends , Yet certain remembrances of the war for you , and after you , And little souvenirs of camps and soldiers , with my love , I bind together and bequeath in this bundle of songs .
Shot gold , maroon and violet , dazzling silver , emerald , fawn , The earth ' s whole amplitude and Nature ' s multiform power consign ' d for once to colors ; The light , the general air possess ' d by them -- colors till now unknown , No limit , confine -- not the Western sky alone -- the high meridian -- North , South , all , Pure luminous color fighting the silent shadows to the last .
