The charming Augusta Hawkins , in addition to all the usual advantages of perfect beauty and merit , was in possession of an independent fortune , of so many thousands as would always be called ten ; a point of some dignity , as well as some convenience : the story told well ; he had not thrown himself away -- he had gained a woman of 10 , 000 l . or thereabouts ; and he had gained her with such delightful rapidity -- the first hour of introduction had been so very soon followed by distinguishing notice ; the history which he had to give Mrs . Cole of the rise and progress of the affair was so glorious -- the steps so quick , from the accidental rencontre , to the dinner at Mr . Green ' s , and the party at Mrs . Brown ' s -- smiles and blushes rising in importance -- with consciousness and agitation richly scattered -- the lady had been so easily impressed -- so sweetly disposed -- had in short , to use a most intelligible phrase , been so very ready to have him , that vanity and prudence were equally contented .
The scenes in its neighbourhood , Charmouth , with its high grounds and extensive sweeps of country , and still more , its sweet , retired bay , backed by dark cliffs , where fragments of low rock among the sands , make it the happiest spot for watching the flow of the tide , for sitting in unwearied contemplation ; the woody varieties of the cheerful village of Up Lyme ; and , above all , Pinny , with its green chasms between romantic rocks , where the scattered forest trees and orchards of luxuriant growth , declare that many a generation must have passed away since the first partial falling of the cliff prepared the ground for such a state , where a scene so wonderful and so lovely is exhibited , as may more than equal any of the resembling scenes of the far - famed Isle of Wight : these places must be visited , and visited again , to make the worth of Lyme understood .
A small green court was the whole of its demesne in front ; and a neat wicket gate admitted them into it .
As a house , Barton Cottage , though small , was comfortable and compact ; but as a cottage it was defective , for the building was regular , the roof was tiled , the window shutters were not painted green , nor were the walls covered with honeysuckles .
On one side you look across the bowling - green , behind the house , to a beautiful hanging wood , and on the other you have a view of the church and village , and , beyond them , of those fine bold hills that we have so often admired .
The closing of the little gate , at the entrance of the green court in front of the house , drew her eyes to the window , and she saw a large party walking up to the door .
There is not a stone laid of Fanny ' s green - house , and nothing but the plan of the flower - garden marked out ."
" Where is the green - house to be ?"
She returned just in time to join the others as they quitted the house , on an excursion through its more immediate premises ; and the rest of the morning was easily whiled away , in lounging round the kitchen garden , examining the bloom upon its walls , and listening to the gardener ' s lamentations upon blights , in dawdling through the green - house , where the loss of her favourite plants , unwarily exposed , and nipped by the lingering frost , raised the laughter of Charlotte ,-- and in visiting her poultry - yard , where , in the disappointed hopes of her dairy - maid , by hens forsaking their nests , or being stolen by a fox , or in the rapid decrease of a promising young brood , she found fresh sources of merriment .
1 : 30 And to every beast of the earth , and to every fowl of the air , and to every thing that creepeth upon the earth , wherein there is life , I have given every green herb for meat : and it was so .
9 : 3 Every moving thing that liveth shall be meat for you ; even as the green herb have I given you all things .
30 : 37 And Jacob took him rods of green poplar , and of the hazel and chesnut tree ; and pilled white strakes in them , and made the white appear which was in the rods .
10 : 15 For they covered the face of the whole earth , so that the land was darkened ; and they did eat every herb of the land , and all the fruit of the trees which the hail had left : and there remained not any green thing in the trees , or in the herbs of the field , through all the land of Egypt .
2 : 14 And if thou offer a meat offering of thy firstfruits unto the LORD , thou shalt offer for the meat offering of thy firstfruits green ears of corn dried by the fire , even corn beaten out of full ears .
23 : 14 And ye shall eat neither bread , nor parched corn , nor green ears , until the selfsame day that ye have brought an offering unto your God : it shall be a statute for ever throughout your generations in all your dwellings .
12 : 2 Ye shall utterly destroy all the places , wherein the nations which ye shall possess served their gods , upon the high mountains , and upon the hills , and under every green tree : 12 : 3 And ye shall overthrow their altars , and break their pillars , and burn their groves with fire ; and ye shall hew down the graven images of their gods , and destroy the names of them out of that place .
16 : 7 And Samson said unto her , If they bind me with seven green withs that were never dried , then shall I be weak , and be as another man .
16 : 8 Then the lords of the Philistines brought up to her seven green withs which had not been dried , and she bound him with them .
14 : 23 For they also built them high places , and images , and groves , on every high hill , and under every green tree .
16 : 4 And he sacrificed and burnt incense in the high places , and on the hills , and under every green tree .
17 : 10 And they set them up images and groves in every high hill , and under every green tree : 17 : 11 And there they burnt incense in all the high places , as did the heathen whom the LORD carried away before them ; and wrought wicked things to provoke the LORD to anger : 17 : 12 For they served idols , whereof the LORD had said unto them , Ye shall not do this thing .
19 : 26 Therefore their inhabitants were of small power , they were dismayed and confounded ; they were as the grass of the field , and as the green herb , as the grass on the house tops , and as corn blasted before it be grown up .
28 : 4 He sacrificed also and burnt incense in the high places , and on the hills , and under every green tree .
1 : 5 And when these days were expired , the king made a feast unto all the people that were present in Shushan the palace , both unto great and small , seven days , in the court of the garden of the king ' s palace ; 1 : 6 Where were white , green , and blue , hangings , fastened with cords of fine linen and purple to silver rings and pillars of marble : the beds were of gold and silver , upon a pavement of red , and blue , and white , and black , marble .
8 : 16 He is green before the sun , and his branch shooteth forth in his garden .
15 : 32 It shall be accomplished before his time , and his branch shall not be green .
39 : 8 The range of the mountains is his pasture , and he searcheth after every green thing .
23 : 2 He maketh me to lie down in green pastures : he leadeth me beside the still waters .
37 : 2 For they shall soon be cut down like the grass , and wither as the green herb .
37 : 35 I have seen the wicked in great power , and spreading himself like a green bay tree .
52 : 8 But I am like a green olive tree in the house of God : I trust in the mercy of God for ever and ever .
1 : 16 Behold , thou art fair , my beloved , yea , pleasant : also our bed is green .
2 : 11 For , lo , the winter is past , the rain is over and gone ; 2 : 12 The flowers appear on the earth ; the time of the singing of birds is come , and the voice of the turtle is heard in our land ; 2 : 13 The fig tree putteth forth her green figs , and the vines with the tender grape give a good smell .
15 : 6 For the waters of Nimrim shall be desolate : for the hay is withered away , the grass faileth , there is no green thing .
37 : 27 Therefore their inhabitants were of small power , they were dismayed and confounded : they were as the grass of the field , and as the green herb , as the grass on the housetops , and as corn blasted before it be grown up .
57 : 5 Enflaming yourselves with idols under every green tree , slaying the children in the valleys under the clifts of the rocks ?
2 : 20 For of old time I have broken thy yoke , and burst thy bands ; and thou saidst , I will not transgress ; when upon every high hill and under every green tree thou wanderest , playing the harlot .
she is gone up upon every high mountain and under every green tree , and there hath played the harlot .
3 : 13 Only acknowledge thine iniquity , that thou hast transgressed against the LORD thy God , and hast scattered thy ways to the strangers under every green tree , and ye have not obeyed my voice , saith the LORD .
11 : 16 The LORD called thy name , A green olive tree , fair , and of goodly fruit : with the noise of a great tumult he hath kindled fire upon it , and the branches of it are broken .
17 : 1 The sin of Judah is written with a pen of iron , and with the point of a diamond : it is graven upon the table of their heart , and upon the horns of your altars ; 17 : 2 Whilst their children remember their altars and their groves by the green trees upon the high hills .
17 : 8 For he shall be as a tree planted by the waters , and that spreadeth out her roots by the river , and shall not see when heat cometh , but her leaf shall be green ; and shall not be careful in the year of drought , neither shall cease from yielding fruit .
6 : 13 Then shall ye know that I am the LORD , when their slain men shall be among their idols round about their altars , upon every high hill , in all the tops of the mountains , and under every green tree , and under every thick oak , the place where they did offer sweet savour to all their idols .
17 : 24 And all the trees of the field shall know that I the LORD have brought down the high tree , have exalted the low tree , have dried up the green tree , and have made the dry tree to flourish : I the LORD have spoken and have done it .
20 : 45 Moreover the word of the LORD came unto me , saying , 20 : 46 Son of man , set thy face toward the south , and drop thy word toward the south , and prophesy against the forest of the south field ; 20 : 47 And say to the forest of the south , Hear the word of the LORD ; Thus saith the Lord GOD ; Behold , I will kindle a fire in thee , and it shall devour every green tree in thee , and every dry tree : the flaming flame shall not be quenched , and all faces from the south to the north shall be burned therein .
I have heard him , and observed him : I am like a green fir tree .
6 : 39 And he commanded them to make all sit down by companies upon the green grass .
23 : 31 For if they do these things in a green tree , what shall be done in the dry ?
8 : 7 The first angel sounded , and there followed hail and fire mingled with blood , and they were cast upon the earth : and the third part of trees was burnt up , and all green grass was burnt up .
9 : 4 And it was commanded them that they should not hurt the grass of the earth , neither any green thing , neither any tree ; but only those men which have not the seal of God in their foreheads .
THE ECHOING GREEN
The sun does arise , And make happy the skies ; The merry bells ring To welcome the Spring ; The skylark and thrush , The birds of the bush , Sing louder around To the bells ' cheerful sound ; While our sports shall be seen On the echoing Green .
They laugh at our play , And soon they all say , " Such , such were the joys When we all -- girls and boys -- In our youth - time were seen On the echoing Green ."
Round the laps of their mothers Many sisters and brothers , Like birds in their nest , Are ready for rest , And sport no more seen On the darkening green .
Under leaves so green A happy blossom Sees you , swift as arrow , Seek your cradle narrow , Near my bosom .
Under leaves so green A happy blossom Hears you sobbing , sobbing , Pretty , pretty robin , Near my bosom .
And by came an angel , who had a bright key , And he opened the coffins , and let them all free ; Then down a green plain , leaping , laughing , they run , And wash in a river , and shine in the sun .
When the green woods laugh with the voice of joy , And the dimpling stream runs laughing by ; When the air does laugh with our merry wit , And the green hill laughs with the noise of it ;
when the meadows laugh with lively green , And the grasshopper laughs in the merry scene , When Mary and Susan and Emily With their sweet round mouths sing " Ha , ha he !"
' Twas on a Holy Thursday , their innocent faces clean , Came children walking two and two , in read , and blue , and green : Grey - headed beadles walked before , with wands as white as snow , Till into the high dome of Paul ' s they like Thames waters flow .
Farewell , green fields and happy grove , Where flocks have ta ' en delight .
When the voices of children are heard on the green , And laughing is heard on the hill , My heart is at rest within my breast , And everything else is still .
When voices of children are heard on the green , And whisperings are in the dale , The days of my youth rise fresh in my mind , My face turns green and pale .
I went to the Garden of Love , And saw what I never had seen ; A Chapel was built in the midst , Where I used to play on the green .
There ' s a garden that I ken , Full of little gentlemen ; Little caps of blue they wear , And green ribbons , very fair .
More and more I push forth my leaves , till out I burst in a gay green dress , and nod in joy and pride .
the little blackberry - bush is alive and beautiful and green .
there are the green tiny berries !
Wee folk , good folk , Trooping all together ; Green jacket , red cap , And white owl ' s feather !
Wee folk , good folk , Trooping all together ; Green jacket , red cap , And white owl ' s feather !
They had a wonderful , wise father , who knew stories to tell , and who taught them their lessons in such a beautiful way that it was better than play ; they had a lovely , merry , kind mother , who was never too tired to help them work or watch them play ; and they had all the great green country to play in .
Once there was a Little Fir Tree , slim and pointed , and shiny , which stood in the great forest in the midst of some big fir trees , broad , and tall , and shadowy green .
The wife cut out two tiny , tiny coats of green , two weeny , weeny waistcoats of yellow , two little pairs of trousers , of white , two bits of caps , bright red ( for every one knows the elves love bright colours ), and her husband made two little pairs of shoes with long , pointed toes .
In good time the seeds sprouted , and the dry , brown earth was covered with a carpet of tender , green , growing things .
They were hopping from the barren places into the young , green crops , and as they settled down they ate the tiny shoots and leaves to the ground .
Margery found it fascinating to watch the long line of dark earth and green grass come rolling up and turn over , as the knife passed it .
They were so tiny that it did not seem possible that green lettuce leaves could come from them .
Tiny green leaves , a whole row of them , were pushing their way through the crust !
Each day , after that , the row of radishes grew , till , in a week , it stood as high as your finger , green and sturdy .
But about the third day , while Margery was stooping over the radishes , she saw something very , very small and green , peeping above ground , where the lettuce was planted .
In irregular patches on the row , hints of green were coming .
He maketh me to lie down in green pastures ; he leadeth me beside the still waters .
The dark green Fir looks so majestic when laden with bright toys and lit up by Christmas candles , that perhaps it is not easy to believe that it is the most modest of trees .
Buster Bear yawned as he lay on his comfortable bed of leaves and watched the first early morning sunbeams creeping through the Green Forest to chase out the Black Shadows .
While he sat there , trying to make up his mind what would taste best , he was listening to the sounds that told of the waking of all the little people who live in the Green Forest .
There wasn ' t water enough in it anywhere except down in the Smiling Pool , and that was on the Green Meadows , where Buster had never been known to go .
Buster Bear hadn ' t enjoyed himself so much since he came to the Green Forest to live .
Sure enough , just as the Jolly Sunbeams began to creep through the Green Forest , he saw Buster Bear coming straight over to the little pool .
" There comes a foolish green fly ," said he .
" What have foolish green flies got to do with my -- I mean _our_ fish ?"
" Can you tell me the difference between the fish that you haven ' t caught and the foolish green flies that I haven ' t caught ?"
Very few of the little people of the Green Forest or the Green Meadows would willingly quarrel with him , for Little Joe is a great fighter when he has to fight .
Farmer Brown ' s boy tramped through the Green Forest , whistling merrily .
And now he was making his way through the Green Forest to the Laughing Brook , sure that by the time he had followed it down to the Smiling Pool he would have a fine lot of trout to take home .
Now Farmer Brown ' s boy didn ' t know that Buster Bear had come down to the Green Forest to live .
He never had heard of a Bear being in the Green Forest .
All the way home through the Green Forest , Farmer Brown ' s boy kept looking behind him , and he didn ' t draw a long breath until he reached the edge of the Green Forest .
He felt that he had the greatest news to tell since Peter Rabbit had first found the tracks of Buster Bear in the Green Forest .
So he hurried to the Smiling Pool , where he was sure he would find Billy Mink and Jerry Muskrat and Grandfather Frog and Spotty the Turtle , and he hoped that perhaps some of the little people who live in the Green Forest might be there too .
Farmer Brown ' s boy isn ' t afraid of any one who lives in the Green Forest or on the Green Meadows or in the Smiling Pool , and you know it .
The news that Little Joe Otter told at the Smiling Pool ,-- how Farmer Brown ' s boy had run away from Buster Bear without even seeing him ,-- soon spread all over the Green Meadows and through the Green Forest , until every one who lives there knew about it .
You see , they had all been afraid of Farmer Brown ' s boy for so long that they were tickled almost to pieces at the very thought of having some one in the Green Forest who could make Farmer Brown ' s boy feel fear as they had felt it .
" Now I guess Farmer Brown ' s boy will keep away from the Green Forest , and we won ' t have to be all the time watching out for him ," said Bobby Coon , as he washed his dinner in the Laughing Brook , for you know he is very neat and particular .
He is one of the smartest and cleverest of all the little people of the Green Meadows and the Green Forest , and all the others know it .
On his big , green lily - pad sat Grandfather Frog .
" To - morrow morning , very early , Sammy Jay and I will make a great fuss near the edge of the Green Forest .
Ever since it was light enough to see at all , Blacky the Crow had been sitting in the top of the tallest tree on the edge of the Green Forest nearest to Farmer Brown ' s house , and never for an instant had he taken his eyes from Farmer Brown ' s back door .
Meanwhile , Sammy Jay was slipping silently through the Green Forest , looking for Buster Bear , so that when the time came he could let his cousin , Blacky the Crow , know just where Buster was .
And all the time he flew about among the trees near the edge of the Green Forest as if so excited that he couldn ' t keep still .
So , when Farmer Brown ' s boy started for the barn instead of for the Green Forest , Blacky didn ' t know what to make of it .
Now all this time the other little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows had been hiding where they could see all that went on .
Farmer Brown ' s boy took the two pails of milk into the house , then out he came and started straight for the Green Forest .
So at the same time Farmer Brown ' s boy started for the Green Forest , this other listener started towards the place where Blacky and Sammy were making such a racket .
That is what Farmer Brown ' s boy did when he met Buster Bear , and a lot of the little people of the Green Forest and some from the Green Meadows saw him .
When Farmer Brown ' s boy came hurrying home from the Laughing Brook without any fish one day and told about the great footprint he had seen in a muddy place on the bank deep in the Green Forest , and had said his was sure that it was the footprint of a Bear , he had been laughed at .
" Why ," said he , " there hasn ' t been a Bear in the Green Forest for years and years and years , not since my own grandfather was a little boy , and that , you know , was a long , long , long time ago .
Buster Bear _had_ come to live in the Green Forest , and Farmer Brown ' s boy _had_ seen his footprint .
So when he heard Blacky the Crow and Sammy Jay making a great fuss near the edge of the Green Forest , he never once thought of Buster Bear , as he started over to see what was going on .
When Blacky and Sammy saw him coming , they moved a little farther in to the Green Forest , still screaming in the most excited way .
For just a little minute it was so still there in the Green Forest that not the least little sound could be heard .
You see , it was the most exciting moment ever was in the Green Forest .
For a whole minute they stood there face to face , gazing into each other ' s eyes , while everybody watched and waited , and it seemed as if the whole Green Forest was holding its breath .
Altogether it was the most surprising thing that the little people of the Green Forest ever had seen .
As this was the first time , the very first time , that they had ever known any one who lives in the Green Forest to make Farmer Brown ' s boy run away , they looked on Buster Bear with a great deal of respect and were very proud of him .
He had run even faster than Farmer Brown ' s boy , and had hidden in the most lonely place he could find in the very deepest part of the Green Forest .
They delighted in flying about through the Green Forest until they had found Buster Bear and then from the safety of the tree tops screaming at him .
There are very few of the little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows who do not know fear at some time or other , but it comes to Chatterer as seldom as to any one , because he is very sure of himself and his ability to hide or run away from danger .
But now as he clung to a little branch near the top of a tall pine - tree in the Green Forest and looked down at the big sharp teeth of Buster Bear drawing nearer and nearer , and listened to the deep , angry growls that made his hair stand on end , Chatterer was too frightened to think .
Of course , when he came down to the Green Forest to live , he brought all his habits with him .
So Buster brought this habit of talking to himself down to the Green Forest , where he had many more neighbors than he had in the Great Woods .
I can eat all I want and get back to the Green Forest before there is any danger that Farmer Brown ' s boy or any one else I ' m afraid of will see me .
The first Jolly Little Sunbeams had only reached the Green Meadows and had not started to creep into the Green Forest , when he saw a big , dark form steal out of the Green Forest where it joins the Old Pasture .
While he was walking around in the Green Forest , talking to himself about how hungry he was for some berries and how sure he was that there must be some up in the Old Pasture , some one else was thinking about berries and about the Old Pasture too .
He was awake even before jolly , round , red Mr . Sun thought it was time to get up , and he was all ready to start for the Old Pasture when the first Jolly Little Sunbeams came dancing across the Green Meadows .
You see , Farmer Brown ' s boy was just beginning to understand something that Peter Rabbit and the other little people of the Green Meadows and the Green Forest learned almost as soon as they learned to walk ,-- that if you don ' t want to be seen , you mustn ' t be heard .
Buster Bear was having the finest time he had had since he came down from the Great Woods to live in the Green Forest .
To be sure , he wasn ' t in the Green Forest now , but he wasn ' t far from it .
He was in the Old Pasture , one edge of which touches one edge of the Green Forest .
His little eyes twinkled with enjoyment , and he didn ' t mind at all if now and then he got leaves , and some green berries in his mouth with the big ripe berries .
Now Buster had reached the Old Pasture just as jolly , round , red Mr . Sun had crept out of bed , and he had fully made up his mind that he would be back in the Green Forest before Mr . Sun had climbed very far up in the blue , blue sky .
And he had a feeling that he was a great deal more likely to meet one of them in the Old Pasture than deep in the Green Forest .
So when he started to look for berries , he made up his mind that he would eat what he could in a great hurry and get back to the Green Forest before Farmer Brown ' s boy was more than out of bed .
There were no leaves or green ones there .
He would eat those berries to the last one , and then he would go home to the Green Forest .
he started for the Green Forest as fast as his legs could take him , and this was very fast indeed , let me tell you .
Sammy Jay was screaming at the top of his lungs , as he followed Buster Bear across the Old Pasture towards the Green Forest .
The little people of the Green Forest , the Green Meadows , and the Smiling Pool are so used to hearing Sammy cry thief that usually they think very little about it .
Just as soon as he caught sight of Buster Bear running for the Green Forest as hard as ever he could , he understood what had excited Sammy so .
And so they reached the edge of the Green Forest , Buster Bear running as hard as ever he could , Sammy Jay flying just behind him and screaming , " Thief , thief , thief !"
Now to have all his neighbors of the Green Forest see him in such a fix and make fun of him , was more than he could stand .
So , when he reached the Green Forest , he kept right on to the deepest , darkest , most lonesome part and crept under the thickest hemlock - tree he could find .
They came from the Old Orchard , the Green Meadows , and even down by the Smiling Pool , for the voices of Sammy Jay and Blacky the Crow carried far , and at the sound of them everybody hurried over , sure that something exciting was going on .
Yes , Sir , Buster Bear was having the worst fit of temper ever seen in the Green Forest .
And the worst part of it all was that all his neighbors of the Green Forest and a whole lot from the Green Meadows and the Smiling Pool were also there to see it .
Then the pail had slipped down behind his ears and held fast , so he had run all the way to the Green Forest with it hanging about his neck .
It seemed to Buster as if everybody who lives in the Green Forest , on the Green Meadows , or around the Smiling Brook , was sitting around his hiding place , laughing and making fun of him .
said Alice in a tone of delight , which changed into alarm in another moment , when she found that her shoulders were nowhere to be found : all she could see , when she looked down , was an immense length of neck , which seemed to rise like a stalk out of a sea of green leaves that lay far below her .
' What CAN all that green stuff be ?'
She was moving them about as she spoke , but no result seemed to follow , except a little shaking among the distant green leaves .
' Beautiful Soup , so rich and green , Waiting in a hot tureen !
The gold and green and crimson of its sunset were not in the shapeless clouds but in shapes of cherubim and seraphim , awful human shapes with a passionate plumage .
In the sumptuous sunset of gold and purple and peacock green cloudlets and islets were the same .
But the romance of the eye , which really on this rich evening , clung about the shop , had its main source in the accident of two doors standing open , the front door that opened on the street and a back door that opened on an odd green square of garden , that the sun turned to a square of gold .
" If I had a blow on the back of my head , I might come to think you a green elephant ," answered MacIan , " but have I not the right to say now , that if I thought that I should think wrong ?"
The two men running in it had an impression not uncommonly experienced between those wild green English walls ; a sense of being led between the walls of a maze .
I ' ll give you a green smooth lawn and your choice of swords and pistols .
The moonlight lay on the white road with a more naked and electric glare than on the grey - green upland , and though the scene which it revealed was complicated , it was not difficult to get its first features at a glance .
A somewhat larger light - green motor - car was tipped half - way into a ditch on the same side , and four flushed and staggering men in evening dress were tipped out of it .
Round the rays of the victorious sun swept a sort of rainbow of confused and conquered colours -- brown and blue and green and flaming rose - colour ; as though gold were driving before it all the colours of the world .
Birds whirred and fluttered in the undergrowth , as if imprisoned in green cages .
MacIan followed him round the corner and found himself in what was certainly an even finer fencing court , of flat , firm sand , enclosed on three sides by white walls of rock , and on the fourth by the green wall of the advancing sea .
He drank in the last green and the last red and the last gold , those unique and indescribable things of God , as a man drains good wine at the bottom of his glass .
After some ten minutes of foam and frenzy , in which all the senses at once seemed blasted by the sea , Evan found himself laboriously swimming on a low , green swell , with the sword still in his teeth and the editor of _The Atheist_ still under his arm .
The others seemed to melt away afterwards into the peacock colours of the dim green grass and the dark blue sky .
It was therefore with legitimate excitement that one rainy morning after daybreak they saw that distinct shape of a solitary island standing up against the encircling strip of silver which ran round the skyline and separated the grey and green of the billows from the grey and mauve of the morning clouds .
From every side across the grey - green common figures could be seen running and closing in ; and it was only when MacIan with his big body broke down the tangled barrier of a little wood , as men break down a door with the shoulder ; it was only when they vanished crashing into the underworld of the black wood , that their hunters were even instantaneously thrown off the scent .
The empty road , along which the chase had taken its turn , was overshadowed on one side by a very high discoloured wall , stained , and streaked green , as with seaweed -- evidently the high - shouldered sentinel of some great gentleman ' s estate .
The white vapour lay , as it often does , in lean and palpable layers ; and even the head of the tree was above it in the half - daylight , like a green ship swinging on a sea of foam .
They could make nothing of the enclosure upon which they were partial trespassers , except that the green and crooked branches of a big apple - tree came crawling at them out of the mist , like the tentacles of some green cuttlefish .
Somehow they found themselves outside in the cool , green garden , and then , after a stunned silence , Turnbull said : " There is one thing that was puzzling me all the time , and I understand it now ."
When it came about a hundred feet above the garden , a shaggy , lean figure leapt up in it , almost black against the bronze and scarlet of the west , and , flinging out a kind of hook or anchor , caught on to the green apple - tree just under the wall ; and from that fixed holding ground the ship swung in the red tempest like a captive balloon .
They did not even know what hour of the day it was ; and when , turning a corner , they saw the bare tunnel of the corridor end abruptly in a shining square of garden , the grass burning in that strong evening sunshine which makes it burnished gold rather than green , the abrupt opening on to the earth seemed like a hole knocked in the wall of heaven .
It was of that innocent lonely yellow which has never heard of orange , though it might turn quite unconsciously into green .
THE consulting - rooms of Dr Orion Hood , the eminent criminologist and specialist in certain moral disorders , lay along the sea - front at Scarborough , in a series of very large and well - lighted french windows , which showed the North Sea like one endless outer wall of blue - green marble .
In such a place the sea had something of the monotony of a blue - green dado : for the chambers themselves were ruled throughout by a terrible tidiness not unlike the terrible tidiness of the sea .
" Well , I ' ve seen you in many costumes in the green room ; but I never expected to see you dressed up as an Englishman ."
Our peasants are like their mountains , rich in grace and green gaiety , but with the fires beneath .
Immediately under this abrupt turn of the road was a grassy and flowery hollow like a sunken meadow ; a sort of green velvet pocket in the long , green , trailing garments of the hills .
He slapped his sword back in the scabbard and went and flung himself somewhat sulkily on one of the green banks .
It is more like an accidental theatre or a natural green - room ; it is like the scene for some romantic comedy ; it is like ...."
The policeman with the grey imperial was striding across the green hollow .
Almost opposite to this were the white and green blinds of the great scientist ' s house , an iron balcony , also painted green , running along in front of the first - floor windows .
Then both betook themselves briskly to one of the little tables under the chestnuts opposite , where they procured two tall glasses of horrible green absinthe , which they could drink apparently in any weather and at any time .
" Suppose someone sent you to find a house with a green door and a blue blind , with a front garden but no back garden , with a dog but no cat , and where they drank coffee but not tea .
I say if you found a house where the door was blue and the blind green , where there was a back garden and no front garden , where cats were common and dogs instantly shot , where tea was drunk in quarts and coffee forbidden -- then you would know you had found the house .
She was clad in a somewhat strange garb of peacock green and peacock blue satins , that gleamed like blue and green metals , such as delight children and aesthetes , and her heavy , hot brown hair framed one of those magic faces which are dangerous to all men , but especially to boys and to men growing grey .
Set in dreamy and exquisite scenery , and moving in mystical dances , the green costume , like burnished beetle - wings , expressed all the elusive individuality of an elfin queen .
It ran along the passage like a path of gold , and in the midst of it Aurora Rome lay lustrous in her robes of green and gold , with her dead face turned upwards .
There burst and fell into his private room a man in the filthiest rags , with a greasy squash hat still askew on his head , and a shabby green shade shoved up from one of his eyes , both of which were glaring like a tiger ' s .
He stepped on to a stone breakwater that ran out from among the roots of the sand - hills , and so struck homeward , perhaps thinking our incubus would find it less easy to walk on such rough stones , green and slippery with seaweed , than we , who were young and used to it .
And with that he crushed a piece of the fallen glass under his heel , and strode away among the green twilight of the twinkling apple - trees .
The lawyer ' s name was Isaac Green , but the Duke always called him Elisha ; presumably in reference to the fact that he was quite bald , though certainly not more than thirty .
I learned from an old apothecary in the village that there was a bald man in evening dress , giving the name of Green , who came to him one night to have a three - cornered cut on his forehead plastered .
And I learnt from the legal records and old newspapers that there was a lawsuit threatened , and at least begun , by one Green against the Duke of Exmoor .
" Mr Green , I think ."
He really was morbid about it ; and it is likely enough that he did invoke it as a kind of curse in the violent scene ( which undoubtedly happened ) in which he struck Green with the decanter .
Green pressed his claim and got the estates ; the dispossessed nobleman shot himself and died without issue .
When I remember how I ' ve cut down a mile and a half of green poisonous jungle with an old cutlass half as sharp as this ; and then remember I must stop here and chop this matchwood , because of some confounded old bargain scribbled in a family Bible , why , I --"
Just outside the steps of the porch stood a little painted green garden table , as if someone had just had tea there .
At the same instant the monstrous figure of the gardener with the streaming beard stood again on the green ridge against the sky , waving others to come on ; but now waving not a rake but a cutlass .
The last of the daylight had faded ; the skies were of a dark , green - grey , like slate , studded here and there with a star , but lighter on the left side of the sky , with the promise of a rising moon .
Above him , at the angle of the steep green bank of the terraced garden , was one of those small picturesque surprises common in the old landscape gardening ; a kind of small round hill or dome of grass , like a giant mole - hill , ringed and crowned with three concentric fences of roses , and having a sundial in the highest point in the centre .
The moonlight discoloured everything , against Dalroy ' s red hair his wan face looked not so much white as pale green .
Behind was the black cave , masked with green thorn , so low that it was hard to believe that a man could enter it .
The bronze or copper of it had grown green with the eating airs of that exalted place , and Otto had instantly the thought , " Even if they had arms , they must be rusted by now ."
I find again the book we found , I feel the hour that flings Far out of fish - shaped Paumanok some cry of cleaner things ; And the Green Carnation withered , as in forest fires that pass , Roared in the wind of all the world ten million leaves of grass ; Or sane and sweet and sudden as a bird sings in the rain -- Truth out of Tusitala spoke and pleasure out of pain .
Across the great part of the dome they were grey , with the strangest tints of violet and mauve and an unnatural pink or pale green ; but towards the west the whole grew past description , transparent and passionate , and the last red - hot plumes of it covered up the sun like something too good to be seen .
There is your precious order , that lean , iron lamp , ugly and barren ; and there is anarchy , rich , living , reproducing itself -- there is anarchy , splendid in green and gold ."
Under the white fog of snow high up in the heaven the whole atmosphere of the city was turned to a very queer kind of green twilight , as of men under the sea .
The sealed and sullen sunset behind the dark dome of St . Paul ' s had in it smoky and sinister colours -- colours of sickly green , dead red or decaying bronze , that were just bright enough to emphasise the solid whiteness of the snow .
Just so , Syme thought , would the brown - gold face of such a tyrant have shown against the dark green olives and the burning blue .
He was still looking at this dwindling figure , which stood as a mere grey blot touched with a white flame against the great green wall of the steep down behind him .
Dr . Renard inhabited a high and comfortable house at the top of a steep street , so that when the riders alighted at his door they could once more see the solid green ridge of the hill , with the white road across it , standing up above all the roofs of the town .
ACROSS green fields , and breaking through blooming hedges , toiled six draggled detectives , about five miles out of London .
Those green hills of Surrey saw the final collapse and tragedy of the admirable light grey suit in which Syme had set out from Saffron Park .
Syme looked left and right upon the patch of green field in which he found himself .
Still , I may be allowed to ask why I should be particularly like Thursday in a green frock spotted all over with the sun and moon .
" Who are these people who provide cold pheasant and Burgundy , and green clothes and Bibles ?
As they descended the broad stairs together they overtook Ratcliffe , who was clad in spring green like a huntsman , and the pattern upon whose garment was a green tangle of trees .
For he stood for that third day on which the earth and green things were made , and his square , sensible face , with its not unfriendly cynicism , seemed appropriate enough to it .
On one side of this lawn , alive with dancers , was a sort of green bank , like the terrace in such old - fashioned gardens .
let us in ," cried a voice , which she knew to be the voice of Betsy Green , the postmaster ' s daughter , who lived in the village near them .
In the first place , he recollected that he had seen Lazy Lawrence , whilst he lounged upon the gate , twist a bit of heath into different shapes ; and he thought , that if he could find some way of plaiting heath firmly together , it would make a very pretty green soft mat , which would do very well for one to wipe one ' s shoes on .
Their customary place of meeting is at a hawthorn , which stands in a little green nook , open on one side to a shady lane , and separated on the other side by a thick sweet - brier and hawthorn hedge from the garden of an attorney .
The setting sun shone full upon the pink blossoms of the hawthorn , when the merry group assembled upon their little green .
The close shaven green , which sloped down from the hatch - door of the schoolroom , was paled round with a rude paling , which , though decayed in some parts by time , was not in any place broken by violence .
She had scarcely opened the wicket which separated the green before the schoolroom door from the lane , when she heard the merry voices of the children , and saw the little troup issuing from the hatchway , and spreading over the green .
All the children who had given up their little purse on May day were assembled on the play - green .
Sir , I was the more loath to see it shut into his garden , which , moreover , is large enough of all conscience without it , because you must know , Sir Arthur , the children in our village are fond of making a little play - green of it ; and they have a custom of meeting on May day at a hawthorn that stands in the middle of it , and altogether I was very loath to see ' em turned out of it by those who have no right ."
" Then ," said Sir Arthur , " Mr . Price , you will observe that I now promise this little green to the children for a play - ground ; and I hope they may gather hawthorn many a May day at this their favourite bush ."
" Yes ," said Sir Arthur , " and I hope on that day , Susan , you will be very happy with your little friends upon their play - green .
The crowd on the play - green increased every minute .
Susan ' s too modest to say it herself ; but I tell ye all , Sir Arthur gave us this play - green for ever , on account of her being so good ."
It was on a spacious bowling - green .
All the flowers of various sorts were ranged upon a terrace at the upper end of the bowling - green ; and , amongst all this gay variety , the tulip which Maurice had given to Arthur appeared conspicuously beautiful .
" Why , sir , because everybody has -- I mean everybody that ' s anybody ; and Lady Diana was talking about the uniform all dinner time , and it ' s settled , all about it , except the buttons : the young Sweepstakes are to get theirs made first for patterns -- they are to be white , faced with green , and they ' ll look very handsome , I ' m sure ; and I shall write to mamma to - night , as Lady Diana bid me , about mine ; and I shall tell her to be sure to answer my letter , without fail , by return of post ; and then , if mamma makes no objection , which I know she won ' t , because she never thinks much about expense , and ALL THAT -- then I shall bespeak my uniform , and get it made by the same tailor that makes for Lady Diana and the young Sweepstakes ."
" My dear uncle , but I assure you ," said Hal , earnestly , " there ' s no judging about the matter , because really , upon my word , Lady Diana said distinctly , that her sons were to have uniforms , white faced with green , and a green and white cockade in their hats ."
Hal , after he was again seated in the hackney - coach , and had rattled through the busy streets of Bristol , for a few minutes quite forgot the spectacle of misery which he had seen ; and the gay shops in Wine Street and the idea of his green and white uniform wholly occupied his imagination .
" Well , let me get out of the carriage , and we will see about it ," said Mr . Gresham ; " perhaps the sight of the beautiful green and white cloth , and the epaulettes ( have you ever considered the epaulettes ?)
The green cloth , and the white cloth , and the epaulettes were produced , to Hal ' s infinite satisfaction .
Upon his return home , however , the sight of the FAMOUS bow and arrow , which Lady Diana Sweepstakes had sent him , recalled to his imagination all the joys of his green and white uniform ; and he no longer wished that it had not been sent to the tailor ' s .
I don ' t think I shall feel it cold at all ," said Hal , as he dressed himself in his new green and white uniform ; and he viewed himself with much complacency .
" As I was sent with a message , by the clerk of our parish , to Redland chapel out on the Downs , to - day , sir ," said he to Mr . Gresham , " knowing your house lay in my way , my mother , sir , bid me call , and make bold to offer the young gentlemen two little worsted balls that she has worked for them ," continued the lad , pulling out of his pocket two worsted balls worked in green and orange - coloured stripes .
" I know ," said Ben , " he will be sorry not to have his bow with him , because here are the green knots tied to it , to match his cockade : and he said that the boys were all to carry their bows , as part of the show ."
I shall be much obliged to you ," said Ben ; and away went the boy with the bow that was ornamented with green ribands .
As he stopped to pick it up , he let go his hat , which he had hitherto held on with anxious care ; for the hat , though it had a fine green and white cockade , had no band or string round it .
He tried to draw it back ; his other foot slipped , and he fell prostrate , in his green and white uniform , into the treacherous bed of red mud .
-- and under this persuasion our young archer resumed his bow -- his bow with green ribands , now no more !-- and he pursued his way to the Downs .
I ' m one of the archers -- I am , indeed ; don ' t you see my green and white uniform ?"
Shoot away , Hal ; but first understand our laws ; we settled them before you came upon the green .
Do you remember , papa , that day last summer , when I went with you to the bowling - green , at the " Saracen ' s Head "?
Besides , Mrs . Theresa ' s parlour door was sometimes left more than half open , to afford a view of a green parrot .
" Oh , I only mixed red , blue , green and yellow , to show you , Marianne , that all colours mixed together make white .
One observed , " that the green curtain was full of holes , and would not draw up ."
The green playgound opened before them , and the hopes of exercise and liberty brightened the countenances of these voluntary prisoners .
One fine autumn evening , all the boys were permitted to go out to play in a pleasant green meadow near the school .
I remember it was a dark green chaise with red wheels : and I remember I read the innkeeper ' s name upon the chaise , ' John Nelson .'
Come , never mind looking at it now ; I want to find out the green chaise that has John Nelson ' s name upon it ."
" Pray give me leave , sir ," said Paul , " to stay a few minutes , to look amongst these chaises for one dark green chaise with red wheels , that has Mr . John Nelson ' s name written upon it ."
" What ' s that he says about a dark green chaise ?"
After some difficulty , the green chaise , with John Nelson ' s name upon it , and the postillion who drove that chaise , were found ; and the postillion told Paul that he was just going into the parlour to the gentleman he had driven , to be paid , and that he would carry the guinea with him .
" Pooh , child , I came in Mr . Nelson ' s green chaise .
" In the year 1690 some persons were on a high hill observing the whales spouting and sporting with each other , when one observed : there -- pointing to the sea -- is a green pasture where our children ' s grand - children will go for bread ."
Are the green fields gone ?
Though true cylinders without -- within , the villanous green goggling glasses deceitfully tapered downwards to a cheating bottom .
One young fellow in a green box coat , addressed himself to these dumplings in a most direful manner .
" I tell you what it is , landlord ," said I quite calmly , " you ' d better stop spinning that yarn to me -- I ' m not green ."
Still more , his very legs were marked , as if a parcel of dark green frogs were running up the trunks of young palms .
Yes , here were a set of sea - dogs , many of whom without the slightest bashfulness had boarded great whales on the high seas -- entire strangers to them -- and duelled them dead without winking ; and yet , here they sat at a social breakfast table -- all of the same calling , all of kindred tastes -- looking round as sheepishly at each other as though they had never been out of sight of some sheepfold among the Green Mountains .
Regent Street is not unknown to Lascars and Malays ; and at Bombay , in the Apollo Green , live Yankees have often scared the natives .
There weekly arrive in this town scores of green Vermonters and New Hampshire men , all athirst for gain and glory in the fishery .
Many are as green as the Green Mountains whence they came .
In summer time , the town is sweet to see ; full of fine maples -- long avenues of green and gold .
ye whose dead lie buried beneath the green grass ; who standing among flowers can say -- here , HERE lies my beloved ; ye know not the desolation that broods in bosoms like these .
When a new - hatched savage running wild about his native woodlands in a grass clout , followed by the nibbling goats , as if he were a green sapling ; even then , in Queequeg ' s ambitious soul , lurked a strong desire to see something more of Christendom than a specimen whaler or two .
I was also aware that being a green hand at whaling , my own lay would not be very large ; but considering that I was used to the sea , could steer a ship , splice a rope , and all that , I made no doubt that from all I had heard I should be offered at least the 275th lay -- that is , the 275th part of the clear net proceeds of the voyage , whatever that might eventually amount to .
spring , thou chap with the red whiskers ; spring there , Scotch - cap ; spring , thou green pants .
Lank Bildad , as pilot , headed the first watch , and ever and anon , as the old craft deep dived into the green seas , and sent the shivering frost all over her , and the winds howled , and the cordage rang , his steady notes were heard ,--
" Sweet fields beyond the swelling flood , Stand dressed in living green .
the sail - needles are in the green locker !
For , as when the red - cheeked , dancing girls , April and May , trip home to the wintry , misanthropic woods ; even the barest , ruggedest , most thunder - cloven old oak will at least send forth some few green sprouts , to welcome such glad - hearted visitants ; so Ahab did , in the end , a little respond to the playful allurings of that girlish air .
Run over a few :-- The Authors of the Bible ; Aristotle ; Pliny ; Aldrovandi ; Sir Thomas Browne ; Gesner ; Ray ; Linnaeus ; Rondeletius ; Willoughby ; Green ; Artedi ; Sibbald ; Brisson ; Marten ; Lacepede ; Bonneterre ; Desmarest ; Baron Cuvier ; Frederick Cuvier ; John Hunter ; Owen ; Scoresby ; Beale ; Bennett ; J . Ross Browne ; the Author of Miriam Coffin ; Olmstead ; and the Rev .
Aye ; girls and a green !-- then I ' ll hop with ye ; yea , turn grasshopper !
to think of the green navies and the green - skulled crews !
green the first day I brought ye thence ; now worn and wilted quite .
Or , to choose a wholly unsubstantial instance , purely addressed to the fancy , why , in reading the old fairy tales of Central Europe , does " the tall pale man " of the Hartz forests , whose changeless pallor unrustlingly glides through the green of the groves -- why is this phantom more terrible than all the whooping imps of the Blocksburg ?
There is no remembrance in him of any gorings of wild creatures in his green northern home , so that the strange muskiness he smells cannot recall to him anything associated with the experience of former perils ; for what knows he , this New England colt , of the black bisons of distant Oregon ?
The vast swells of the omnipotent sea ; the surging , hollow roar they made , as they rolled along the eight gunwales , like gigantic bowls in a boundless bowling - green ; the brief suspended agony of the boat , as it would tip for an instant on the knife - like edge of the sharper waves , that almost seemed threatening to cut it in two ; the sudden profound dip into the watery glens and hollows ; the keen spurrings and goadings to gain the top of the opposite hill ; the headlong , sled - like slide down its other side ;-- all these , with the cries of the headsmen and harpooneers , and the shuddering gasps of the oarsmen , with the wondrous sight of the ivory Pequod bearing down upon her boats with outstretched sails , like a wild hen after her screaming brood ;-- all this was thrilling .
Like Mark Antony , for days and days along his green - turfed , flowery Nile , he indolently floats , openly toying with his red - cheeked Cleopatra , ripening his apricot thigh upon the sunny deck .
In bony , ribby regions of the earth , where at the base of high broken cliffs masses of rock lie strewn in fantastic groupings upon the plain , you will often discover images as of the petrified forms of the Leviathan partly merged in grass , which of a windy day breaks against them in a surf of green surges .
Consider all this ; and then turn to this green , gentle , and most docile earth ; consider them both , the sea and the land ; and do you not find a strange analogy to something in yourself ?
In the first place , the enormous cutting tackles , among other ponderous things comprising a cluster of blocks generally painted green , and which no single man can possibly lift -- this vast bunch of grapes was swayed up to the main - top and firmly lashed to the lower mast - head , the strongest point anywhere above a ship ' s deck .
A strange , apostolic whim having seized him , he had left Neskyeuna for Nantucket , where , with that cunning peculiar to craziness , he assumed a steady , common - sense exterior , and offered himself as a green - hand candidate for the Jeroboam ' s whaling voyage .
It was sorely tumbled , damp , and covered with a dull , spotted , green mould , in consequence of being kept in a dark locker of the cabin .
Then , again , if you fix your eye upon this strange , crested , comb - like incrustation on the top of the mass -- this green , barnacled thing , which the Greenlanders call the " crown ," and the Southern fishers the " bonnet " of the Right Whale ; fixing your eyes solely on this , you would take the head for the trunk of some huge oak , with a bird ' s nest in its crotch .
At any rate , when you watch those live crabs that nestle here on this bonnet , such an idea will be almost sure to occur to you ; unless , indeed , your fancy has been fixed by the technical term " crown " also bestowed upon it ; in which case you will take great interest in thinking how this mighty monster is actually a diademed king of the sea , whose green crown has been put together for him in this marvellous manner .
Those narrow straits of Sunda divide Sumatra from Java ; and standing midway in that vast rampart of islands , buttressed by that bold green promontory , known to seamen as Java Head ; they not a little correspond to the central gateway opening into some vast walled empire : and considering the inexhaustible wealth of spices , and silks , and jewels , and gold , and ivory , with which the thousand islands of that oriental sea are enriched , it seems a significant provision of nature , that such treasures , by the very formation of the land , should at least bear the appearance , however ineffectual , of being guarded from the all - grasping western world .
But though the green palmy cliffs of the land soon loomed on the starboard bow , and with delighted nostrils the fresh cinnamon was snuffed in the air , yet not a single jet was descried .
And when he glanced upon the green walls of the watery defile in which the ship was then sailing , and bethought him that through that gate lay the route to his vengeance , and beheld , how that through that same gate he was now both chasing and being chased to his deadly end ; and not only that , but a herd of remorseless wild pirates and inhuman atheistical devils were infernally cheering him on with their curses ;-- when all these conceits had passed through his brain , Ahab ' s brow was left gaunt and ribbed , like the black sand beach after some stormy tide has been gnawing it , without being able to drag the firm thing from its place .
But thoughts like these troubled very few of the reckless crew ; and when , after steadily dropping and dropping the pirates astern , the Pequod at last shot by the vivid green Cockatoo Point on the Sumatra side , emerging at last upon the broad waters beyond ; then , the harpooneers seemed more to grieve that the swift whales had been gaining upon the ship , than to rejoice that the ship had so victoriously gained upon the Malays .
Drawing across her bow , he perceived that in accordance with the fanciful French taste , the upper part of her stem - piece was carved in the likeness of a huge drooping stalk , was painted green , and for thorns had copper spikes projecting from it here and there ; the whole terminating in a symmetrical folded bulb of a bright red colour .
But Pip loved life , and all life ' s peaceable securities ; so that the panic - striking business in which he had somehow unaccountably become entrapped , had most sadly blurred his brightness ; though , as ere long will be seen , what was thus temporarily subdued in him , in the end was destined to be luridly illumined by strange wild fires , that fictitiously showed him off to ten times the natural lustre with which in his native Tolland County in Connecticut , he had once enlivened many a fiddler ' s frolic on the green ; and at melodious even - tide , with his gay ha - ha !
But he who dodges hospitals and jails , and walks fast crossing graveyards , and would rather talk of operas than hell ; calls Cowper , Young , Pascal , Rousseau , poor devils all of sick men ; and throughout a care - free lifetime swears by Rabelais as passing wise , and therefore jolly ;-- not that man is fitted to sit down on tomb - stones , and break the green damp mould with unfathomably wondrous Solomon .
Pythagoras , that in bright Greece , two thousand years ago , did die , so good , so wise , so mild ; I sailed with thee along the Peruvian coast last voyage -- and , foolish as I am , taught thee , a green simple boy , how to splice a rope !
the green miser ' ll hoard ye soon !
The wood was green as mosses of the Icy Glen ; the trees stood high and haughty , feeling their living sap ; the industrious earth beneath was as a weaver ' s loom , with a gorgeous carpet on it , whereof the ground - vine tendrils formed the warp and woof , and the living flowers the figures .
Now , amid the green , life - restless loom of that Arsacidean wood , the great , white , worshipped skeleton lay lounging -- a gigantic idler !
Cutting me a green measuring - rod , I once more dived within the skeleton .
when the ship was about half disembowelled , you should have stooped over the hatchway , and peered down upon him there ; where , stripped to his woollen drawers , the tattooed savage was crawling about amid that dampness and slime , like a green spotted lizard at the bottom of a well .
It was far down the afternoon ; and when all the spearings of the crimson fight were done : and floating in the lovely sunset sea and sky , sun and whale both stilly died together ; then , such a sweetness and such plaintiveness , such inwreathing orisons curled up in that rosy air , that it almost seemed as if far over from the deep green convent valleys of the Manilla isles , the Spanish land - breeze , wantonly turned sailor , had gone to sea , freighted with these vesper hymns .
When I think of this life I have led ; the desolation of solitude it has been ; the masoned , walled - town of a Captain ' s exclusiveness , which admits but small entrance to any sympathy from the green country without -- oh , weariness !
By the green land ; by the bright hearth - stone !
What ' s this ?-- green ?
No such green weather stains on Ahab ' s head !
So on he fares , and to the border comes Of Eden , where delicious Paradise , Now nearer , crowns with her enclosure green , As with a rural mound , the champaign head Of a steep wilderness , whose hairy sides Access denied ; and overhead upgrew Insuperable height of loftiest shade , Cedar , and pine , and fir , and branching palm , A sylvan scene , and , as the ranks ascend , Shade above shade , a woody theatre Of stateliest view .
Under a tuft of shade that on a green Stood whispering soft , by a fresh fountain side They sat them down ; and , after no more toil Of their sweet gardening labour than sufficed To recommend cool Zephyr , and made ease More easy , wholesome thirst and appetite More grateful , to their supper - fruits they fell , Nectarine fruits which the compliant boughs Yielded them , side - long as they sat recline On the soft downy bank damasked with flowers : The savoury pulp they chew , and in the rind , Still as they thirsted , scoop the brimming stream ; Nor gentle purpose , nor endearing smiles Wanted , nor youthful dalliance , as beseems Fair couple , linked in happy nuptial league , Alone as they .
Not distant far from thence a murmuring sound Of waters issued from a cave , and spread Into a liquid plain , then stood unmoved Pure as the expanse of Heaven ; I thither went With unexperienced thought , and laid me down On the green bank , to look into the clear Smooth lake , that to me seemed another sky .
To - morrow , ere fresh morning streak the east With first approach of light , we must be risen , And at our pleasant labour , to reform Yon flowery arbours , yonder alleys green , Our walk at noon , with branches overgrown , That mock our scant manuring , and require More hands than ours to lop their wanton growth : Those blossoms also , and those dropping gums , That lie bestrown , unsightly and unsmooth , Ask riddance , if we mean to tread with ease ; Mean while , as Nature wills , night bids us rest .
So from the root Springs lighter the green stalk , from thence the leaves More aery , last the bright consummate flower Spirits odorous breathes : flowers and their fruit , Man ' s nourishment , by gradual scale sublimed , To vital spirits aspire , to animal , To intellectual ; give both life and sense , Fancy and understanding ; whence the soul Reason receives , and reason is her being , Discursive , or intuitive ; discourse Is oftest yours , the latter most is ours , Differing but in degree , of kind the same .
He scarce had said , when the bare Earth , till then Desart and bare , unsightly , unadorned , Brought forth the tender grass , whose verdure clad Her universal face with pleasant green ; Then herbs of every leaf , that sudden flowered Opening their various colours , and made gay Her bosom , smelling sweet : and , these scarce blown , Forth flourished thick the clustering vine , forth crept The swelling gourd , up stood the corny reed Embattled in her field , and the humble shrub , And bush with frizzled hair implicit : Last Rose , as in dance , the stately trees , and spread Their branches hung with copious fruit , or gemmed Their blossoms : With high woods the hills were crowned ; With tufts the valleys , and each fountain side ; With borders long the rivers : that Earth now Seemed like to Heaven , a seat where Gods might dwell , Or wander with delight , and love to haunt Her sacred shades : though God had yet not rained Upon the Earth , and man to till the ground None was ; but from the Earth a dewy mist Went up , and watered all the ground , and each Plant of the field ; which , ere it was in the Earth , God made , and every herb , before it grew On the green stem : God saw that it was good : So even and morn recorded the third day .
Forthwith the sounds and seas , each creek and bay , With fry innumerable swarm , and shoals Of fish that with their fins , and shining scales , Glide under the green wave , in sculls that oft Bank the mid sea : part single , or with mate , Graze the sea - weed their pasture , and through groves Of coral stray ; or , sporting with quick glance , Show to the sun their waved coats dropt with gold ; Or , in their pearly shells at ease , attend Moist nutriment ; or under rocks their food In jointed armour watch : on smooth the seal And bended dolphins play : part huge of bulk Wallowing unwieldy , enormous in their gait , Tempest the ocean : there leviathan , Hugest of living creatures , on the deep Stretched like a promontory sleeps or swims , And seems a moving land ; and at his gills Draws in , and at his trunk spouts out , a sea .
The Earth obeyed , and straight Opening her fertile womb teemed at a birth Innumerous living creatures , perfect forms , Limbed and full grown : Out of the ground up rose , As from his lair , the wild beast where he wons In forest wild , in thicket , brake , or den ; Among the trees in pairs they rose , they walked : The cattle in the fields and meadows green : Those rare and solitary , these in flocks Pasturing at once , and in broad herds upsprung .
At once came forth whatever creeps the ground , Insect or worm : those waved their limber fans For wings , and smallest lineaments exact In all the liveries decked of summer ' s pride With spots of gold and purple , azure and green : These , as a line , their long dimension drew , Streaking the ground with sinuous trace ; not all Minims of nature ; some of serpent - kind , Wonderous in length and corpulence , involved Their snaky folds , and added wings .
Thou Sun , said I , fair light , And thou enlightened Earth , so fresh and gay , Ye Hills , and Dales , ye Rivers , Woods , and Plains , And ye that live and move , fair Creatures , tell , Tell , if ye saw , how I came thus , how here ?-- Not of myself ;-- by some great Maker then , In goodness and in power pre - eminent : Tell me , how may I know him , how adore , From whom I have that thus I move and live , And feel that I am happier than I know .-- While thus I called , and strayed I knew not whither , From where I first drew air , and first beheld This happy light ; when , answer none returned , On a green shady bank , profuse of flowers , Pensive I sat me down : There gentle sleep First found me , and with soft oppression seised My droused sense , untroubled , though I thought I then was passing to my former state Insensible , and forthwith to dissolve : When suddenly stood at my head a dream , Whose inward apparition gently moved My fancy to believe I yet had being , And lived : One came , methought , of shape divine , And said , ' Thy mansion wants thee , Adam ; rise , ' First Man , of men innumerable ordained ' First Father !
But I can now no more ; the parting sun Beyond the Earth ' s green Cape and verdant Isles Hesperian sets , my signal to depart .
His eyes he opened , and beheld a field , Part arable and tilth , whereon were sheaves New reaped ; the other part sheep - walks and folds ; I ' the midst an altar as the land - mark stood , Rustick , of grassy sord ; thither anon A sweaty reaper from his tillage brought First fruits , the green ear , and the yellow sheaf , Unculled , as came to hand ; a shepherd next , More meek , came with the firstlings of his flock , Choicest and best ; then , sacrificing , laid The inwards and their fat , with incense strowed , On the cleft wood , and all due rights performed : His offering soon propitious fire from Heaven Consumed with nimble glance , and grateful steam ; The other ' s not , for his was not sincere ; Whereat he inly raged , and , as they talked , Smote him into the midriff with a stone That beat out life ; he fell ; and , deadly pale , Groaned out his soul with gushing blood effused .
Forthwith from out the ark a raven flies , And after him , the surer messenger , A dove sent forth once and again to spy Green tree or ground , whereon his foot may light : The second time returning , in his bill An olive - leaf he brings , pacifick sign : Anon dry ground appears , and from his ark The ancient sire descends , with all his train ; Then with uplifted hands , and eyes devout , Grateful to Heaven , over his head beholds A dewy cloud , and in the cloud a bow Conspicuous with three lifted colours gay , Betokening peace from God , and covenant new .
But first , the lawless tyrant , who denies To know their God , or message to regard , Must be compelled by signs and judgements dire ; To blood unshed the rivers must be turned ; Frogs , lice , and flies , must all his palace fill With loathed intrusion , and fill all the land ; His cattle must of rot and murren die ; Botches and blains must all his flesh emboss , And all his people ; thunder mixed with hail , Hail mixed with fire , must rend the Egyptians sky , And wheel on the earth , devouring where it rolls ; What it devours not , herb , or fruit , or grain , A darksome cloud of locusts swarming down Must eat , and on the ground leave nothing green ; Darkness must overshadow all his bounds , Palpable darkness , and blot out three days ; Last , with one midnight stroke , all the first - born Of Egypt must lie dead .
The smoke of my own breath , Echoes , ripples , buzz ' d whispers , love - root , silk - thread , crotch and vine , My respiration and inspiration , the beating of my heart , the passing of blood and air through my lungs , The sniff of green leaves and dry leaves , and of the shore and dark - color ' d sea - rocks , and of hay in the barn ,
I guess it must be the flag of my disposition , out of hopeful green stuff woven .
9 The big doors of the country barn stand open and ready , The dried grass of the harvest - time loads the slow - drawn wagon , The clear light plays on the brown gray and green intertinged , The armfuls are pack ' d to the sagging mow .
I believe in those wing ' d purposes , And acknowledge red , yellow , white , playing within me , And consider green and violet and the tufted crown intentional , And do not call the tortoise unworthy because she is not something else , And the in the woods never studied the gamut , yet trills pretty well to me , And the look of the bay mare shames silliness out of me .
By the city ' s quadrangular houses -- in log huts , camping with lumber - men , Along the ruts of the turnpike , along the dry gulch and rivulet bed , Weeding my onion - patch or hosing rows of carrots and parsnips , crossing savannas , trailing in forests , Prospecting , gold - digging , girdling the trees of a new purchase , Scorch ' d ankle - deep by the hot sand , hauling my boat down the shallow river , Where the panther walks to and fro on a limb overhead , where the buck turns furiously at the hunter , Where the rattlesnake suns his flabby length on a rock , where the otter is feeding on fish , Where the alligator in his tough pimples sleeps by the bayou , Where the black bear is searching for roots or honey , where the beaver pats the mud with his paddle - shaped tall ; Over the growing sugar , over the yellow - flower ' d cotton plant , over the rice in its low moist field , Over the sharp - peak ' d farm house , with its scallop ' d scum and slender shoots from the gutters , Over the western persimmon , over the long - leav ' d corn , over the delicate blue - flower flax , Over the white and brown buckwheat , a hummer and buzzer there with the rest , Over the dusky green of the rye as it ripples and shades in the breeze ; Scaling mountains , pulling myself cautiously up , holding on by low scragged limbs , Walking the path worn in the grass and beat through the leaves of the brush , Where the quail is whistling betwixt the woods and the wheat - lot , Where the bat flies in the Seventh - month eve , where the great goldbug drops through the dark , Where the brook puts out of the roots of the old tree and flows to the meadow , Where cattle stand and shake away flies with the tremulous shuddering of their hides , Where the cheese - cloth hangs in the kitchen , where andirons straddle the hearth - slab , where cobwebs fall in festoons from the rafters ; Where trip - hammers crash , where the press is whirling its cylinders , Wherever the human heart beats with terrible throes under its ribs , Where the pear - shaped balloon is floating aloft , ( floating in it myself and looking composedly down ,) Where the life - car is drawn on the slip - noose , where the heat hatches pale - green eggs in the dented sand , Where the she - whale swims with her calf and never forsakes it , Where the steam - ship trails hind - ways its long pennant of smoke , Where the fin of the shark cuts like a black chip out of the water , Where the half - burn ' d brig is riding on unknown currents , Where shells grow to her slimy deck , where the dead are corrupting below ; Where the dense - starr ' d flag is borne at the head of the regiments , Approaching Manhattan up by the long - stretching island , Under Niagara , the cataract falling like a veil over my countenance , Upon a door - step , upon the horse - block of hard wood outside , Upon the race - course , or enjoying picnics or jigs or a good game of base - ball , At he - festivals , with blackguard gibes , ironical license , bull - dances , drinking , laughter , At the cider - mill tasting the sweets of the brown mash , sucking the juice through a straw , At apple - peelings wanting kisses for all the red fruit I find , At musters , beach - parties , friendly bees , huskings , house - raisings ; Where the mocking - bird sounds his delicious gurgles , cackles , screams , weeps , Where the hay - rick stands in the barn - yard , where the dry - stalks are scatter ' d , where the brood - cow waits in the hovel , Where the bull advances to do his masculine work , where the stud to the mare , where the cock is treading the hen , Where the heifers browse , where geese nip their food with short jerks , Where sun - down shadows lengthen over the limitless and lonesome prairie , Where herds of buffalo make a crawling spread of the square miles far and near , Where the humming - bird shimmers , where the neck of the long - lived swan is curving and winding , Where the laughing - gull scoots by the shore , where she laughs her near - human laugh , Where bee - hives range on a gray bench in the garden half hid by the high weeds , Where band - neck ' d partridges roost in a ring on the ground with their heads out , Where burial coaches enter the arch ' d gates of a cemetery , Where winter wolves bark amid wastes of snow and icicled trees , Where the yellow - crown ' d heron comes to the edge of the marsh at night and feeds upon small crabs , Where the splash of swimmers and divers cools the warm noon , Where the katy - did works her chromatic reed on the walnut - tree over the well , Through patches of citrons and cucumbers with silver - wired leaves , Through the salt - lick or orange glade , or under conical firs , Through the gymnasium , through the curtain ' d saloon , through the office or public hall ; Pleas ' d with the native and pleas ' d with the foreign , pleas ' d with the new and old , Pleas ' d with the homely woman as well as the handsome , Pleas ' d with the quakeress as she puts off her bonnet and talks melodiously , Pleas ' d with the tune of the choir of the whitewash ' d church , Pleas ' d with the earnest words of the sweating Methodist preacher , impress ' d seriously at the camp - meeting ; Looking in at the shop - windows of Broadway the whole forenoon , flatting the flesh of my nose on the thick plate glass , Wandering the same afternoon with my face turn ' d up to the clouds , or down a lane or along the beach , My right and left arms round the sides of two friends , and I in the middle ; Coming home with the silent and dark - cheek ' d bush - boy , ( behind me he rides at the drape of the day ,) Far from the settlements studying the print of animals ' feet , or the moccasin print , By the cot in the hospital reaching lemonade to a feverish patient , Nigh the coffin ' d corpse when all is still , examining with a candle ; Voyaging to every port to dicker and adventure , Hurrying with the modern crowd as eager and fickle as any , Hot toward one I hate , ready in my madness to knife him , Solitary at midnight in my back yard , my thoughts gone from me a long while , Walking the old hills of Judaea with the beautiful gentle God by my side , Speeding through space , speeding through heaven and the stars , Speeding amid the seven satellites and the broad ring , and the diameter of eighty thousand miles , Speeding with tail ' d meteors , throwing fire - balls like the rest , Carrying the crescent child that carries its own full mother in its belly , Storming , enjoying , planning , loving , cautioning , Backing and filling , appearing and disappearing , I tread day and night such roads .
I visit the orchards of spheres and look at the product , And look at quintillions ripen ' d and look at quintillions green .
The sprawl and fulness of babes , the bosoms and heads of women , the folds of their dress , their style as we pass in the street , the contour of their shape downwards , The swimmer naked in the swimming - bath , seen as he swims through the transparent green - shine , or lies with his face up and rolls silently to and from the heave of the water , The bending forward and backward of rowers in row - boats , the horse - man in his saddle , Girls , mothers , house - keepers , in all their performances , The group of laborers seated at noon - time with their open dinner - kettles , and their wives waiting , The female soothing a child , the farmer ' s daughter in the garden or cow - yard , The young fellow hosing corn , the sleigh - driver driving his six horses through the crowd , The wrestle of wrestlers , two apprentice - boys , quite grown , lusty , good - natured , native - born , out on the vacant lot at sundown after work , The coats and caps thrown down , the embrace of love and resistance , The upper - hold and under - hold , the hair rumpled over and blinding the eyes ; The march of firemen in their own costumes , the play of masculine muscle through clean - setting trowsers and waist - straps , The slow return from the fire , the pause when the bell strikes suddenly again , and the listening on the alert , The natural , perfect , varied attitudes , the bent head , the curv ' d neck and the counting ; Such - like I love -- I loosen myself , pass freely , am at the mother ' s breast with the little child , Swim with the swimmers , wrestle with wrestlers , march in line with the firemen , and pause , listen , count .
Spontaneous me , Nature , The loving day , the mounting sun , the friend I am happy with , The arm of my friend hanging idly over my shoulder , The hillside whiten ' d with blossoms of the mountain ash , The same late in autumn , the hues of red , yellow , drab , purple , and light and dark green , The rich coverlet of the grass , animals and birds , the private untrimm ' d bank , the primitive apples , the pebble - stones , Beautiful dripping fragments , the negligent list of one after another as I happen to call them to me or think of them , The real poems , ( what we call poems being merely pictures ,) The poems of the privacy of the night , and of men like me , This poem drooping shy and unseen that I always carry , and that all men carry , ( Know once for all , avow ' d on purpose , wherever are men like me , are our lusty lurking masculine poems ,) Love - thoughts , love - juice , love - odor , love - yielding , love - climbers , and the climbing sap , Arms and hands of love , lips of love , phallic thumb of love , breasts of love , bellies press ' d and glued together with love , Earth of chaste love , life that is only life after love , The body of my love , the body of the woman I love , the body of the man , the body of the earth , Soft forenoon airs that blow from the south - west , The hairy wild - bee that murmurs and hankers up and down , that gripes the full - grown lady - flower , curves upon her with amorous firm legs , takes his will of her , and holds himself tremulous and tight till he is satisfied ; The wet of woods through the early hours , Two sleepers at night lying close together as they sleep , one with an arm slanting down across and below the waist of the other , The smell of apples , aromas from crush ' d sage - plant , mint , birch - bark , The boy ' s longings , the glow and pressure as he confides to me what he was dreaming , The dead leaf whirling its spiral whirl and falling still and content to the ground , The no - form ' d stings that sights , people , objects , sting me with , The hubb ' d sting of myself , stinging me as much as it ever can any one , The sensitive , orbic , underlapp ' d brothers , that only privileged feelers may be intimate where they are , The curious roamer the hand roaming all over the body , the bashful withdrawing of flesh where the fingers soothingly pause and edge themselves , The limpid liquid within the young man , The vex ' d corrosion so pensive and so painful , The torment , the irritable tide that will not be at rest , The like of the same I feel , the like of the same in others , The young man that flushes and flushes , and the young woman that flushes and flushes , The young man that wakes deep at night , the hot hand seeking to repress what would master him , The mystic amorous night , the strange half - welcome pangs , visions , sweats , The pulse pounding through palms and trembling encircling fingers , the young man all color ' d , red , ashamed , angry ; The souse upon me of my lover the sea , as I lie willing and naked , The merriment of the twin babes that crawl over the grass in the sun , the mother never turning her vigilant eyes from them , The walnut - trunk , the walnut - husks , and the ripening or ripen ' d long - round walnuts , The continence of vegetables , birds , animals , The consequent meanness of me should I skulk or find myself indecent , while birds and animals never once skulk or find themselves indecent , The great chastity of paternity , to match the great chastity of maternity , The oath of procreation I have sworn , my Adamic and fresh daughters , The greed that eats me day and night with hungry gnaw , till I saturate what shall produce boys to fill my place when I am through , The wholesome relief , repose , content , And this bunch pluck ' d at random from myself , It has done its work -- I toss it carelessly to fall where it may .
I saw in Louisiana a live - oak growing , All alone stood it and the moss hung down from the branches , Without any companion it grew there uttering joyous of dark green , And its look , rude , unbending , lusty , made me think of myself , But I wonder ' d how it could utter joyous leaves standing alone there without its friend near , for I knew I could not , And I broke off a twig with a certain number of leaves upon it and twined around it a little moss , And brought it away , and I have placed it in sight in my room , It is not needed to remind me as of my own dear friends , ( For I believe lately I think of little else than of them ,) Yet it remains to me a curious token , it makes me think of manly love ; For all that , and though the live - oak glistens there in Louisiana solitary in a wide in a wide flat space , Uttering joyous leaves all its life without a friend a lover near , I know very well I could not .
I see the places of the sagas , I see pine - trees and fir - trees torn by northern blasts , I see granite bowlders and cliffs , I see green meadows and lakes , I see the burial - cairns of Scandinavian warriors , I see them raised high with stones by the marge of restless oceans , that the dead men ' s spirits when they wearied of their quiet graves might rise up through the mounds and gaze on the tossing billows , and be refresh ' d by storms , immensity , liberty , action .
Always Florida ' s green peninsula -- always the priceless delta of Louisiana -- always the cotton - fields of Alabama and Texas , Always California ' s golden hills and hollows , and the silver mountains of New Mexico -- always soft - breath ' d Cuba , Always the vast slope drain ' d by the Southern sea , inseparable with the slopes drain ' d by the Eastern and Western seas , The area the eighty - third year of these States , the three and a half millions of square miles , The eighteen thousand miles of sea - coast and bay - coast on the main , the thirty thousand miles of river navigation , The seven millions of distinct families and the same number of dwellings -- always these , and more , branching forth into numberless branches , Always the free range and diversity -- always the continent of Democracy ; Always the prairies , pastures , forests , vast cities , travelers , Kanada , the snows ; Always these compact lands tied at the hips with the belt stringing the huge oval lakes ; Always the West with strong native persons , the increasing density there , the habitans , friendly , threatening , ironical , scorning invaders ; All sights , South , North , East -- all deeds , promiscuously done at all times , All characters , movements , growths , a few noticed , myriads unnoticed , Through Mannahatta ' s streets I walking , these things gathering , On interior rivers by night in the glare of pine knots , steamboats wooding up , Sunlight by day on the valley of the Susquehanna , and on the valleys of the Potomac and Rappahannock , and the valleys of the Roanoke and Delaware , In their northerly wilds beasts of prey haunting the Adirondacks the hills , or lapping the Saginaw waters to drink , In a lonesome inlet a sheldrake lost from the flock , sitting on the water rocking silently , In farmers ' barns oxen in the stable , their harvest labor done , they rest standing , they are too tired , Afar on arctic ice the she - walrus lying drowsily while her cubs play around , The hawk sailing where men have not yet sail ' d , the farthest polar sea , ripply , crystalline , open , beyond the floes , White drift spooning ahead where the ship in the tempest dashes , On solid land what is done in cities as the bells strike midnight together , In primitive woods the sounds there also sounding , the howl of the wolf , the scream of the panther , and the hoarse bellow of the elk , In winter beneath the hard blue ice of Moosehead lake , in summer visible through the clear waters , the great trout swimming , In lower latitudes in warmer air in the Carolinas the large black buzzard floating slowly high beyond the tree tops , Below , the red cedar festoon ' d with tylandria , the pines and cypresses growing out of the white sand that spreads far and flat , Rude boats descending the big Pedee , climbing plants , parasites with color ' d flowers and berries enveloping huge trees , The waving drapery on the live - oak trailing long and low , noiselessly waved by the wind , The camp of Georgia wagoners just after dark , the supper - fires and the cooking and eating by whites and negroes , Thirty or forty great wagons , the mules , cattle , horses , feeding from troughs , The shadows , gleams , up under the leaves of the old sycamore - trees , the flames with the black smoke from the pitch - pine curling and rising ; Southern fishermen fishing , the sounds and inlets of North Carolina ' s coast , the shad - fishery and the herring - fishery , the large sweep - seines , the windlasses on shore work ' d by horses , the clearing , curing , and packing - houses ; Deep in the forest in piney woods turpentine dropping from the incisions in the trees , there are the turpentine works , There are the negroes at work in good health , the ground in all directions is cover ' d with pine straw ; In Tennessee and Kentucky slaves busy in the coalings , at the forge , by the furnace - blaze , or at the corn - shucking , In Virginia , the planter ' s son returning after a long absence , joyfully welcom ' d and kiss ' d by the aged mulatto nurse , On rivers boatmen safely moor ' d at nightfall in their boats under shelter of high banks , Some of the younger men dance to the sound of the banjo or fiddle , others sit on the gunwale smoking and talking ; Late in the afternoon the mocking - bird , the American mimic , singing in the Great Dismal Swamp , There are the greenish waters , the resinous odor , the plenteous moss , the cypress - tree , and the juniper - tree ; Northward , young men of Mannahatta , the target company from an excursion returning home at evening , the musket - muzzles all bear bunches of flowers presented by women ; Children at play , or on his father ' s lap a young boy fallen asleep , ( how his lips move !
Another time in warm weather out in a boat , to lift the lobster - pots where they are sunk with heavy stones , ( I know the buoys ,) O the sweetness of the Fifth - month morning upon the water as I row just before sunrise toward the buoys , I pull the wicker pots up slantingly , the dark green lobsters are desperate with their claws as I take them out , I insert wooden pegs in the ' oints of their pincers ,
Behold , the sea itself , And on its limitless , heaving breast , the ships ; See , where their white sails , bellying in the wind , speckle the green and blue , See , the steamers coming and going , steaming in or out of port , See , dusky and undulating , the long pennants of smoke .
Once Paumanok , When the lilac - scent was in the air and Fifth - month grass was growing , Up this seashore in some briers , Two feather ' d guests from Alabama , two together , And their nest , and four light - green eggs spotted with brown , And every day the he - bird to and fro near at hand , And every day the she - bird crouch ' d on her nest , silent , with bright eyes , And every day I , a curious boy , never too close , never disturbing them , Cautiously peering , absorbing , translating .
The world below the brine , Forests at the bottom of the sea , the branches and leaves , Sea - lettuce , vast lichens , strange flowers and seeds , the thick tangle openings , and pink turf , Different colors , pale gray and green , purple , white , and gold , the play of light through the water , Dumb swimmers there among the rocks , coral , gluten , grass , rushes , and the aliment of the swimmers , Sluggish existences grazing there suspended , or slowly crawling close to the bottom , The sperm - whale at the surface blowing air and spray , or disporting with his flukes , The leaden - eyed shark , the walrus , the turtle , the hairy sea - leopard , and the sting - ray , Passions there , wars , pursuits , tribes , sight in those ocean - depths , breathing that thick - breathing air , as so many do , The change thence to the sight here , and to the subtle air breathed by beings like us who walk this sphere , The change onward from ours to that of beings who walk other spheres .
The troops are but drilling , they are yet surrounded with smiles , Around them at hand the well - drest friends and the women , While splendid and warm the afternoon sun shines down , Green the midsummer verdure and fresh blows the dallying breeze , O ' er proud and peaceful cities and arm of the sea between .
A line in long array where they wind betwixt green islands , They take a serpentine course , their arms flash in the sun -- hark to the musical clank , Behold the silvery river , in it the splashing horses loitering stop to drink , Behold the brown - faced men , each group , each person a picture , the negligent rest on the saddles , Some emerge on the opposite bank , others are just entering the ford -- while , Scarlet and blue and snowy white , The guidon flags flutter gayly in the wind .
Lo , ' tis autumn , Lo , where the trees , deeper green , yellower and redder , Cool and sweeten Ohio ' s villages with leaves fluttering in the moderate wind , Where apples ripe in the orchards hang and grapes on the trellis ' d vines , ( Smell you the smell of the grapes on the vines ?
Why wag your head with turban bound , yellow , red and green ?
3 In the dooryard fronting an old farm - house near the white - wash ' d palings , Stands the lilac - bush tall - growing with heart - shaped leaves of rich green , With many a pointed blossom rising delicate , with the perfume strong I love , With every leaf a miracle -- and from this bush in the dooryard , With delicate - color ' d blossoms and heart - shaped leaves of rich green , A sprig with its flower I break .
7 ( Nor for you , for one alone , Blossoms and branches green to coffins all I bring , For fresh as the morning , thus would I chant a song for you O sane and sacred death .
Pictures of growing spring and farms and homes , With the Fourth - month eve at sundown , and the gray smoke lucid and bright , With floods of the yellow gold of the gorgeous , indolent , sinking sun , burning , expanding the air , With the fresh sweet herbage under foot , and the pale green leaves of the trees prolific , In the distance the flowing glaze , the breast of the river , with a wind - dapple here and there , With ranging hills on the banks , with many a line against the sky , and shadows , And the city at hand with dwellings so dense , and stacks of chimneys , And all the scenes of life and the workshops , and the workmen homeward returning .
Busy the far , the sunlit panorama , Prairie , orchard , and yellow grain of the North , Cotton and rice of the South and Louisianian cane , Open unseeded fallows , rich fields of clover and timothy , Kine and horses feeding , and droves of sheep and swine , And many a stately river flowing and many a jocund brook , And healthy uplands with herby - perfumed breezes , And the good green grass , that delicate miracle the ever - recurring grass .
Under thee only they harvest , even but a wisp of hay under thy great face only , Harvest the wheat of Ohio , Illinois , Wisconsin , every barbed spear under thee , Harvest the maize of Missouri , Kentucky , Tennessee , each ear in its light - green sheath , Gather the hay to its myriad mows in the odorous tranquil barns , Oats to their bins , the white potato , the buckwheat of Michigan , to theirs ; Gather the cotton in Mississippi or Alabama , dig and hoard the golden the sweet potato of Georgia and the Carolinas , Clip the wool of California or Pennsylvania , Cut the flax in the Middle States , or hemp or tobacco in the Borders , Pick the pea and the bean , or pull apples from the trees or bunches of grapes from the vines , Or aught that ripens in all these States or North or South , Under the beaming sun and under thee .
The grass of spring covers the prairies , The bean bursts noiselessly through the mould in the garden , The delicate spear of the onion pierces upward , The apple - buds cluster together on the apple - branches , The resurrection of the wheat appears with pale visage out of its graves , The tinge awakes over the willow - tree and the mulberry - tree , The he - birds carol mornings and evenings while the she - birds sit on their nests , The young of poultry break through the hatch ' d eggs , The new - born of animals appear , the calf is dropt from the cow , the colt from the mare , Out of its little hill faithfully rise the potato ' s dark green leaves , Out of its hill rises the yellow maize - stalk , the lilacs bloom in the dooryards , The summer growth is innocent and disdainful above all those strata of sour dead .
That the winds are really not infectious , That this is no cheat , this transparent green - wash of the sea which is so amorous after me , That it is safe to allow it to lick my naked body all over with its tongues , That it will not endanger me with the fevers that have deposited themselves in it , That all is clean forever and forever , That the cool drink from the well tastes so good , That blackberries are so flavorous and juicy , That the fruits of the apple - orchard and the orange - orchard , that melons , grapes , peaches , plums , will none of them poison me , That when I recline on the grass I do not catch any disease , Though probably every spear of grass rises out of what was once catching disease .
Warble me now for joy of lilac - time , ( returning in reminiscence ,) Sort me O tongue and lips for Nature ' s sake , souvenirs of earliest summer , Gather the welcome signs , ( as children with pebbles or stringing shells ,) Put in April and May , the hylas croaking in the ponds , the elastic air , Bees , butterflies , the sparrow with its simple notes , Blue - bird and darting swallow , nor forget the high - hole flashing his golden wings , The tranquil sunny haze , the clinging smoke , the vapor , Shimmer of waters with fish in them , the cerulean above , All that is jocund and sparkling , the brooks running , The maple woods , the crisp February days and the sugar - making , The robin where he hops , bright - eyed , brown - breasted , With musical clear call at sunrise , and again at sunset , Or flitting among the trees of the apple - orchard , building the nest of his mate , The melted snow of March , the willow sending forth its yellow - green sprouts , For spring - time is here !
To glide with thee O soul , o ' er all , in all , as a ship o ' er the waters ; Gathering these hints , the preludes , the blue sky , the grass , the morning drops of dew , The lilac - scent , the bushes with dark green heart - shaped leaves , Wood - violets , the little delicate pale blossoms called innocence , Samples and sorts not for themselves alone , but for their atmosphere , To grace the bush I love -- to sing with the birds , A warble for joy of returning in reminiscence .
Now the great organ sounds , Tremulous , while underneath , ( as the hid footholds of the earth , On which arising rest , and leaping forth depend , All shapes of beauty , grace and strength , all hues we know , Green blades of grass and warbling birds , children that gambol and play , the clouds of heaven above ,) The strong base stands , and its pulsations intermits not , Bathing , supporting , merging all the rest , maternity of all the rest , And with it every instrument in multitudes , The players playing , all the world ' s musicians , The solemn hymns and masses rousing adoration , All passionate heart - chants , sorrowful appeals , The measureless sweet vocalists of ages , And for their solvent setting earth ' s own diapason , Of winds and woods and mighty ocean waves , A new composite orchestra , binder of years and climes , ten - fold renewer , As of the far - back days the poets tell , the Paradiso , The straying thence , the separation long , but now the wandering done , The journey done , the journeyman come home , And man and art with Nature fused again .
Two boats with nets lying off the sea - beach , quite still , Ten fishermen waiting -- they discover a thick school of mossbonkers -- they drop the join ' d seine - ends in the water , The boats separate and row off , each on its rounding course to the beach , enclosing the mossbonkers , The net is drawn in by a windlass by those who stop ashore , Some of the fishermen lounge in their boats , others stand ankle - deep in the water , pois ' d on strong legs , The boats partly drawn up , the water slapping against them , Strew ' d on the sand in heaps and windrows , well out from the water , the green - back ' d spotted mossbonkers .
The cactus guarded with thorns , the laurel - tree with large white flowers , The range afar , the richness and barrenness , the old woods charged with mistletoe and trailing moss , The piney odor and the gloom , the awful natural stillness , ( here in these dense swamps the freebooter carries his gun , and the fugitive has his conceal ' d hut ;) O the strange fascination of these half - known half - impassable swamps , infested by reptiles , resounding with the bellow of the alligator , the sad noises of the night - owl and the wild - cat , and the whirr of the rattlesnake , The mocking - bird , the American mimic , singing all the forenoon , singing through the moon - lit night , The humming - bird , the wild turkey , the raccoon , the opossum ; A Kentucky corn - field , the tall , graceful , long - leav ' d corn , slender , flapping , bright green , with tassels , with beautiful ears each well - sheath ' d in its husk ; O my heart !
Again old heart so gay , again to you , your sense , the full flush spring returning , Again the freshness and the odors , again Virginia ' s summer sky , pellucid blue and silver , Again the forenoon purple of the hills , Again the deathless grass , so noiseless soft and green , Again the blood - red roses blooming .
} Camps of Green
Lo , the camps of the tents of green , Which the days of peace keep filling , and the days of war keep filling , With a mystic army , ( is it too order ' d forward ?
Now in those camps of green , in their tents dotting the world , In the parents , children , husbands , wives , in them , in the old and young , Sleeping under the sunlight , sleeping under the moonlight , content and silent there at last , Behold the mighty bivouac - field and waiting - camp of all , Of the corps and generals all , and the President over the corps and generals all , And of each of us O soldiers , and of each and all in the ranks we fought , ( There without hatred we all , all meet .)
For presently O soldiers , we too camp in our place in the bivouac - camps of green , But we need not provide for outposts , nor word for the countersign , Nor drummer to beat the morning drum .
Apple orchards , the trees all cover ' d with blossoms ; Wheat fields carpeted far and near in vital emerald green ; The eternal , exhaustless freshness of each early morning ; The yellow , golden , transparent haze of the warm afternoon sun ; The aspiring lilac bushes with profuse purple or white flowers .
Thou shalt perceive the simple shows , the delicate miracles of earth , Dandelions , clover , the emerald grass , the early scents and flowers , The arbutus under foot , the willow ' s yellow - green , the blossoming plum and cherry ; With these the robin , lark and thrush , singing their songs -- the flitting bluebird ; For such the scenes the annual play brings on .
Down on the ancient wharf , the sand , I sit , with a new - comer chatting : He shipp ' d as green - hand boy , and sail ' d away , ( took some sudden , vehement notion ;) Since , twenty years and more have circled round and round , While he the globe was circling round and round , -- and now returns : How changed the place -- all the old land - marks gone -- the parents dead ; ( Yes , he comes back to lay in port for good -- to settle -- has a well - fill ' d purse -- no spot will do but this ;) The little boat that scull ' d him from the sloop , now held in leash I see , I hear the slapping waves , the restless keel , the rocking in the sand , I see the sailor kit , the canvas bag , the great box bound with brass , I scan the face all berry - brown and bearded -- the stout - strong frame , Dress ' d in its russet suit of good Scotch cloth : ( Then what the told - out story of those twenty years ?
