Her eyes , a deep grey , with dark eye - lashes and eyebrows , had never been denied their praise ; but the skin , which she had been used to cavil at , as wanting colour , had a clearness and delicacy which really needed no fuller bloom .
One day last spring , in town , I was in company with two men , striking instances of what I am talking of ; Lord St Ives , whose father we all know to have been a country curate , without bread to eat ; I was to give place to Lord St Ives , and a certain Admiral Baldwin , the most deplorable - looking personage you can imagine ; his face the colour of mahogany , rough and rugged to the last degree ; all lines and wrinkles , nine grey hairs of a side , and nothing but a dab of powder at top .
It exactly answers my idea of a fine country , because it unites beauty with utility -- and I dare say it is a picturesque one too , because you admire it ; I can easily believe it to be full of rocks and promontories , grey moss and brush wood , but these are all lost on me .
Mrs . Taylor told me of it half an hour ago , and she was told it by a particular friend of Miss Grey herself , else I am sure I should not have believed it ; and I was almost ready to sink as it was .
" The lady then -- Miss Grey I think you called her -- is very rich ?"
" Do you know what kind of a girl Miss Grey is ?
" I never heard any harm of her ; indeed I hardly ever heard her mentioned ; except that Mrs . Taylor did say this morning , that one day Miss Walker hinted to her , that she believed Mr . and Mrs . Ellison would not be sorry to have Miss Grey married , for she and Mrs . Ellison could never agree ."
" You mean ," answered Elinor , with forced calmness , " Mr . Willoughby ' s marriage with Miss Grey .
The name of Willoughby , John Willoughby , frequently repeated , first caught my attention ; and what followed was a positive assertion that every thing was now finally settled respecting his marriage with Miss Grey -- it was no longer to be a secret -- it would take place even within a few weeks , with many particulars of preparations and other matters .
The communicative lady I learnt , on inquiry , for I stayed in the shop till they were gone , was a Mrs . Ellison , and that , as I have been since informed , is the name of Miss Grey ' s guardian ."
But have you likewise heard that Miss Grey has fifty thousand pounds ?
She could soon tell at what coachmaker ' s the new carriage was building , by what painter Mr . Willoughby ' s portrait was drawn , and at what warehouse Miss Grey ' s clothes might be seen .
But every thing was then just settled between Miss Grey and me .
20 : 29 The glory of young men is their strength : and the beauty of old men is the grey head .
' Twas on a Holy Thursday , their innocent faces clean , Came children walking two and two , in read , and blue , and green : Grey - headed beadles walked before , with wands as white as snow , Till into the high dome of Paul ' s they like Thames waters flow .
Earth raised up her head From the darkness dread and drear , Her light fled , Stony , dread , And her locks covered with grey despair .
Soon my Angel came again ; I was armed , he came in vain ; For the time of youth was fled , And grey hairs were on my head .
As she said the words , a great grey man stood before her ; he was wrapped in a strange grey cloak that covered him from head to foot ; and he smiled at Elsa .
" You shall have them , dear ," said the grey man , and he shook his strange grey cloak .
" These shall be your servants , Elsa ," said the grey man ; " they are faithful and clever , and they will do everything you want them to , just right .
The grey man touched each one of the ten little fingers , and as he touched them he said their names : " Little Thumb ; Forefinger ; Thimble - finger ; Ring - finger ; Little Finger ; Little Thumb ; Forefinger ; Thimble - finger ; Ring - finger ; Little Finger !"
said the grey man .
And the grey man was gone .
" Dear , dear ," said the courtiers , " that is very pleasant ; does that little grey bird really make all that noise ?
Then the little grey Nightingale filled her throat full , and sang .
said the little grey Nightingale .
The only living thing near was an old , bony , grey donkey .
After a long while he gave it up , and , since there was nothing better to do , he mounted the old grey donkey and set out again .
Slower , and slower , went the grey donkey ; slower , and slower , till , in the very middle of a pitch - black wood , he stopped and stood still .
' In my youth ,' said the sage , as he shook his grey locks , ' I kept all my limbs very supple By the use of this ointment -- one shilling the box -- Allow me to sell you a couple ?'
As the flying ship swept towards it , this plain of cloud looked as dry and definite and rocky as any grey desert .
But then again in that damnable darkness there began to grow a strange dawn as of grey and pale silver .
And the police already had their hands on a very tall young man , with dark , lank hair and dark , dazed eyes , with a grey plaid over his shoulder , who had just smashed the shop window with a single blow of his stick .
Then his eyes encountered the monkish habit of Michael , and he pulled off his grey tam - o '- shanter with the gesture of a Catholic .
Two other constables attended to the tall young man in grey ; a fourth concerned himself with the owner of the shop , who showed some tendency to be turbulent .
He was a young man in a grey plaid , and he smashed the window .
Evan MacIan plunged his hands into his loose grey garment and drew out a queer looking leather purse .
Its eyes were grey and awful , and its beard red .
One of them who seemed to be the principal and the authority ( whom , indeed , Mr . Henry Gordon fancied he had seen somewhere before ), was a small , sturdy fellow , with fine grey eyes , a square red tie and a square red beard , that he carried aggressively forward as if he defied anyone to pull it .
The other kept so much in the background in comparison that he looked almost ghostly in his grey cloak or plaid , a tall , sallow , silent young man .
The tall Scotchman in grey took a step forward and spoke in a voice quite clear and bold , and yet somehow lifeless , like a man going through an ancient formality .
The atheist , with his grey eyes at their widest and wildest , was staring straight over his shoulder at the little archway of shop that opened on the street beyond .
The darkness in the east had been broken with a bar of grey ; the bar of grey was split with a sword of silver and morning lifted itself laboriously over London .
From the spot where Turnbull and MacIan were sitting on one of the barren steeps behind Hampstead , they could see the whole of London shaping itself vaguely and largely in the grey and growing light , until the white sun stood over it and it lay at their feet , the splendid monstrosity that it is .
It was a weather - stained hut of grey wood , which with all its desolation retained a tag or two of trivial ornament , which suggested that the thing had once been a sort of summer - house , and the place probably a sort of garden .
He wore a square pale - grey jacket suit , on which the grey butterfly tie was the only indisputable touch of affectation .
Turnbull ' s big blue - grey eyes stood open with a grave astonishment .
The church lay a little above and beyond the village , with a square grey tower dominating it decisively .
And in gigantic strides the long , lean Highlander whirled away into the grey twilight , Turnbull following with a good - humoured oath .
He was a man elderly or rather of any age , with lean grey hair and a lean red face , but with that remarkable rustic physiognomy in which it seems that all the features stand out independently from the face ; the rugged red nose going out like a limb ; the bleared blue eyes standing out like signals .
Morning broke in bitter silver along the grey and level plain ; and almost as it did so Turnbull and MacIan came out of a low , scrubby wood on to the empty and desolate flats .
The moonlight lay on the white road with a more naked and electric glare than on the grey - green upland , and though the scene which it revealed was complicated , it was not difficult to get its first features at a glance .
They looked at the sky and it seemed as dark as ever ; then they saw the black shape of a tower or tree against it and knew that it was already grey .
" Will you oblige me ," said Turnbull , with staring grey eyes and a voice of distinct and violent politeness ; " will you oblige me by jolly well minding your own business ?
With the grey and watery dawn crawling up behind it , the fence really seemed to say to our philosophic adventurers that they had come at last to the other end of nowhere .
They had a dreary walk across wastes of grey shingle in the grey dawn before they began to come within hail of human fields or roads ; nor had they any notion of what fields or roads they would be .
At length they came to a pale ribbon of road , edged by a shelf of rough and almost colourless turf ; and a few feet up the slope there stood grey and weather - stained , one of those big wayside crucifixes which are seldom seen except in Catholic countries .
said the other , looking at him heavily and with knitted brows , like one almost dazed with the grey doubts of desolate twilight and drifting sea .
The father with his square face and grey side whiskers , the daughter with her square face and golden fringe of hair , were both stronger than they know ; stronger than anyone knew .
It was therefore with legitimate excitement that one rainy morning after daybreak they saw that distinct shape of a solitary island standing up against the encircling strip of silver which ran round the skyline and separated the grey and green of the billows from the grey and mauve of the morning clouds .
From every side across the grey - green common figures could be seen running and closing in ; and it was only when MacIan with his big body broke down the tangled barrier of a little wood , as men break down a door with the shoulder ; it was only when they vanished crashing into the underworld of the black wood , that their hunters were even instantaneously thrown off the scent .
MacIan could not rid himself of the fancy of bestriding a steed ; the long , grey coping of the wall shot out in front of him , like the long , grey neck of some nightmare Rosinante .
He was a slim yet satisfied figure , clad in a suit of pale - grey tweed , so subdued that the pattern was imperceptible -- a costume that was casual but not by any means careless .
As he was screwing his eye to peer at this grey and greasy twilight he was astonished to see another human finger very long and lean come down from above towards the broken pipe and hook it up to something higher .
On the same kind of tiled floor , of which the monotonous squares had maddened Turnbull ' s eye and brain , was sitting a figure which was startlingly short even for a child , only that the enormous head was ringed with hair of a frosty grey .
The figure was draped , both insecurely and insufficiently , in what looked like the remains of a brown flannel dressing - gown ; an emptied cup of cocoa stood on the floor beside it , and the creature had his big grey head cocked at a particular angle of inquiry or attention which amid all that gathering gloom and mystery struck one as comic if not cocksure .
The thing got up with the promptitude of an animal , and turning round offered the spectacle of two owlish eyes and a huge grey - and - white beard not unlike the plumage of an owl .
Turnbull , whose powers of surprise were exhausted , rolled his round grey eyes and said , " Mr . Wilkinson , I think ," because he could not think of anything else to say .
As he did so he caught sight of another square face behind Madeleine ' s , a face with long grey whiskers and an austere stare .
He was clad in an artist ' s velvet , but with none of an artist ' s negligence ; his hair was heavily shot with grey , but growing thick and healthy ; his face was lean , but sanguine and expectant .
A few feet from it lay what looked like a long knife or short sword , straight , but with an ornamental and pictured handle , its dull blade just caught a grey glint from the dreary window behind , which showed the black trees against the leaden level of the sea .
He was a massive elderly man with a boiled blue eye and faded grey - sandy moustaches ; but for his heavy stoop he might have been a colonel .
Another order was given ; there was a noise of dismounting , and a tall officer with cocked hat , a grey imperial , and a paper in his hand appeared in the gap that was the gate of the Paradise of Thieves .
The policeman with the grey imperial was striding across the green hollow .
The door was opened to them by the doctor ' s old servant , Simon , who might very well have passed for a doctor himself , having a strict suit of black , spectacles , grey hair , and a confidential manner .
` Tell the man the formula for powder is in grey envelope in first drawer to the left of Secretary ' s desk , War Office , in red ink .
It says the grey envelope contains a long document written in red ink .
" You are sure the grey envelope was in the left cupboard ?"
" The grey envelope -- it was a white envelope really -- was --"
" It was not grey ," said the priest .
" I ' m frightened of a white envelope ," said the other seriously , " If it had only just been grey !
Hang it all , it might as well have been grey .
The tops of trees , mostly rather depressing evergreens , showed at intervals over the top of the wall , and beyond them in the grey and purple gloaming could be seen the back of some long terrace of tall Parisian houses , really comparatively close , but somehow looking as inaccessible as a range of marble mountains .
His hair was silver - grey , but he did not look old ; it was worn longer than the common yet he did not look effeminate ; it was curly but it did not look curled .
His grey gloves were a shade bluer , his silver - knobbed cane a shade longer than scores of such gloves and canes flapped and flourished about the theatres and the restaurants .
She was clad in a somewhat strange garb of peacock green and peacock blue satins , that gleamed like blue and green metals , such as delight children and aesthetes , and her heavy , hot brown hair framed one of those magic faces which are dangerous to all men , but especially to boys and to men growing grey .
You know I sometimes take a turn in the country lanes outside this dismal place ; well , I was walking early this evening up a steep lane with dark hedges and grey - looking ploughed fields on both sides ; and a young moon was up and silvering the road .
It was some two hours ago , about seven by this time ; the moonlight was more luminous , and I could see the long white streaks of it lying on the mysterious mere with its grey , greasy , half - liquid shores in which they say our fathers used to make witches walk until they sank .
You see a good - looking grey - haired man in evening - dress with a sort of authority about him , you know he is a pillar of the State , and you fancy he had a father .
But a yet more depressing feature in the grey facade is its telescopic length and changeless continuity .
At the feet of those grey stone giants it looks like a lighted house of dwarfs .
It was the tip of a crooked nose , crushed against the glass ; it looked white with the pressure ; and the staring face and eyes behind it were at first invisible and afterwards grey like a ghost .
It was a long , low inn , consisting really of a cottage and two barns ; thatched all over with the thatch that looks like brown and grey hair grown before history .
His lank limbs were clad , I might also say clutched , in very tight grey sleeves and pantaloons ; he had a long , sallow , aquiline face which seemed somehow all the more saturnine because his lantern jaws were imprisoned in his collar and neck - cloth more in the style of the old stock ; and his hair ( which ought to have been dark brown ) was of an odd dim , russet colour which , in conjunction with his yellow face , looked rather purple than red .
Anyhow , a mystical monotony was the only character of their march , until Fanshaw suddenly stopped , and pointed to something sticking out through the grey fence -- something that looked at first rather like the imprisoned horn of some beast .
Then through this larger forest gateway he came out into the evening light , with a chip of grey wood sticking to his sword - blade .
How grey everything looks !"
In the grey distance the big bandstand of a watering - place stood up like a giant mushroom with six legs .
Inland the little wintry gardens faded into a confused grey copse ; beyond that , in the distance , were long low barns of a lonely farmhouse , and beyond that nothing but the long East Anglian plains .
Almost the whole frontage was of gilt plaster and figured glass , and between that grey seascape and the grey , witch - like trees , its gimcrack quality had something spectral in its melancholy .
But as I was saying ," he resumed , as the negro , still ostentatiously pulling on his yellow gloves , betook himself briskly towards the watering - place , a queer music - hall figure against that grey and frosty scene --" as I was saying , I couldn ' t describe the man very minutely , but he had a flourish and old - fashioned whiskers and moustachios , dark or dyed , as in the pictures of foreign financiers , round his neck was wrapped a long purple scarf that thrashed out in the wind as he walked .
He caught the little priest by the elbow and ran him down a grey perspective of barren back garden , at the end of which there was a closed back garden door .
He was half grey and half flaxen , and he had the eyes of fever and a high - bridged , frost - bitten nose .
The scattered trees outlined themselves more and more out of the vapour , as if they were first drawn in grey chalk and then in charcoal .
Then the grey sky - line brightened into silver , and in the broadening light he realized that he had been to the house which belonged to an Anglo - Indian Major named Putnam ; and that the Major had a native cook from Malta who was of his communion .
" Could you do me the favour ," asked Kidd , with the courtesy of his nation , " of directing me to the Grey Cottage , where Mr Boulnois lives , as I understand ?"
Dalroy had come down , it seemed , to snuff up the scent of a scandal which might very well end in the Divorce Court , but which was at present hovering between Grey Cottage and Pendragon Park .
But Calhoun Kidd , having finished a milk and soda , betook himself smartly up the road towards the Grey Cottage , leaving his cynical informant to his whisky and tobacco .
The last of the daylight had faded ; the skies were of a dark , green - grey , like slate , studded here and there with a star , but lighter on the left side of the sky , with the promise of a rising moon .
The Grey Cottage , which stood entrenched , as it were , in a square of stiff , high thorn - hedges , was so close under the pines and palisades of the Park that Kidd at first mistook it for the Park Lodge .
John Boulnois was a big , slow - moving man with a massive head , partly grey and partly bald , and blunt , burly features .
Even the grey - ribbed trees looked young , for the pointed buds on them were still pink , and in a pattern against the strong blue looked like innumerable childish figures .
He was glad when the great trees , grey and already greasy with rain , swallowed him up like a swamp .
Yea , cool and clear and sudden as a bird sings in the grey , Dunedin to Samoa spoke , and darkness unto day .
Across the great part of the dome they were grey , with the strangest tints of violet and mauve and an unnatural pink or pale green ; but towards the west the whole grew past description , transparent and passionate , and the last red - hot plumes of it covered up the sun like something too good to be seen .
Syme rose slowly to his feet and thrust his long , white hands into his long , grey trousers ' pockets .
Acting under the advice of his friend the policeman ( who was professionally inclined to neatness ), he trimmed his hair and beard , bought a good hat , clad himself in an exquisite summer suit of light blue - grey , with a pale yellow flower in the button - hole , and , in short , became that elegant and rather insupportable person whom Gregory had first encountered in the little garden of Saffron Park .
His face was as grey as his long grey beard , his forehead was lifted and fixed finally in a furrow of mild despair .
Most of the snow was melted or trampled to mud , but here and there a clot of it still showed grey rather than white in the gloom .
He was awakened next morning while the east was still sealed with darkness , and found his grey - bearded ally standing like a ghost beside his bed .
They paused for a few minutes only to stuff down coffee and coarse thick sandwiches at a coffee stall , and then made their way across the river , which under the grey and growing light looked as desolate as Acheron .
From each the innumerable roofs of slate looked like the leaden surges of a grey , troubled sea after rain .
" Yes ," assented the Professor , " you ' re quite right ; and we must hurry up , for I can see the Grey Nose standing out from France ."
He was a white - haired , apple - faced old boy , with sleepy eyes and a grey moustache ; stout , sedentary , and very innocent , of a type that may often be found in France , but is still commoner in Catholic Germany .
He was still looking at this dwindling figure , which stood as a mere grey blot touched with a white flame against the great green wall of the steep down behind him .
There was a long silence , and then Ratcliffe said , looking out over the swollen sea , all a sort of grey purple --
Before the three cabs , however , could reach up to the spot , he had gone up the high railings like a huge grey cat , tossed himself over , and vanished in a darkness of leaves .
" A very large and fat old gentleman in light grey clothes ," said the keeper eagerly .
" Well ," said Syme , " if he ' s that particular kind of old gentleman , if you ' re quite sure that he ' s a large and fat old gentleman in grey clothes , you may take my word for it that the elephant has not run away with him .
Clean across the space of grass , about two hundred yards away , with a crowd screaming and scampering vainly at his heels , went a huge grey elephant at an awful stride , with his trunk thrown out as rigid as a ship ' s bowsprit , and trumpeting like the trumpet of doom .
And even as he spoke , a final crash and roar of terror announced that the great grey elephant had broken out of the gates of the Zoological Gardens , and was careening down Albany Street like a new and swift sort of omnibus .
Those green hills of Surrey saw the final collapse and tragedy of the admirable light grey suit in which Syme had set out from Saffron Park .
He received me in an ordinary office , in a grey check coat , in broad daylight .
There was the same white hair , the same great , grey - clad shoulders that I had seen from behind .
He was clad in a fine but old - fashioned suit with knee - breeches ; its colour was that shade between blue , violet and grey which can be seen in certain shadows of the woodland .
His hair was whitish grey , and at the first glance , taken along with his knee - breeches , looked as if it was powdered .
Along the side of these carriages stood a rank of splendid servants , all dressed in the grey - blue uniform , and all having a certain quality of stateliness and freedom which would not commonly belong to the servants of a gentleman , but rather to the officials and ambassadors of a great king .
When the carriages eventually rolled up to a large , low , cavernous gateway , another man in the same uniform , but wearing a silver star on the grey breast of his coat , came out to meet them .
Gogol , or Tuesday , had his simplicity well symbolised by a dress designed upon the division of the waters , a dress that separated upon his forehead and fell to his feet , grey and silver , like a sheet of rain .
It flung the homely effect of firelight over the face of vast forests of grey or brown , and it seemed to fill with warmth even the emptiness of upper night .
All was silent : the grey light of the morning was now spreading over every object ; the sun rose slowly , and Susan stood at the lattice window , looking through the small leaded , cross - barred panes at the splendid spectacle .
The person who usually helped him in his distress was a very clever , good natured boy , of the name of De Grey , who had been many years under Dr . Middleton ' s care , and who , by his abilities and good conduct , did him great credit .
His influence , for he was a boy of considerable abilities , was quickly felt , though he had a powerful rival , as he thought proper to call him , in De Grey ; and , with HIM , a rival was always an enemy .
De Grey , so far from giving him any cause of hatred , treated him with a degree of cordiality , which would probably have had an effect upon Archer ' s mind , if it had not been for the artifices of Fisher .
Fisher was mortally offended one morning by De Grey ' s refusing to translate his whole lesson for him .
From this moment Fisher forgot all De Grey ' s former kindness , and considered only how he could in his turn mortify the person whom he felt to be so much his superior .
De Grey and Archer were now reading for a premium , which was to be given in their class .
" Mr . Archer ," said Dr . Middleton , after the grand affair was decided , " you have done all that genius alone could do ; but you , De Grey , have done all that genius and industry united could do ."
for me -- industry for those who WANT it ," added he , with a significant look at De Grey .
Fisher applauded this as a very spirited speech ; and , by insinuations that Dr . Middleton " always gave the premium to De Grey ," and that " those who had lost their bets might thank themselves for it , for being such simpletons as to bet against the favourite ," he raised a murmur highly flattering to Archer , amongst some of the most credulous boys ; whilst others loudly proclaimed their belief in Dr . Middleton ' s impartiality .
These warmly congratulated De Grey .
At this Archer grew more and more angry , and when Fisher was proceeding to speak nonsense FOR him , pushed forward into the circle to De Grey , crying , " I wish , Mr . Fisher , you would let me fight my own battles !"
Come ," said he , tapping De Grey ' s shoulder , " let us see your new playhouse , do -- it ' s a holiday , and let us make the most of it .
Let us have the ' School for Scandal ,' do ; and I ' ll play Charles for you , and you , De Grey , shall be MY LITTLE PREMIUM .
said De Grey , and he ran across the playground to a waste building at the farthest end of it , in which , at the earnest request of the whole community , and with the permission of Dr . Middleton , he had with much pain and ingenuity erected a theatre .
They turned from De Grey as from a person who had done them an injury .
Some of his friends -- for he had friends who were not swayed by the popular opinion -- felt indignation at this ingratitude , and were going to express their feelings ; but De Grey stopped them , and begged that he might speak for himself .
De Grey looked on superior .
De Grey , and in the same instant Archer , went forward ; and , as the shutters opened , there appeared through the hole the dark face and shrivelled hands of a very old gipsy .
At length she fixed her eyes on De Grey .
" Nothing ," said De Grey .
said he , looking at De Grey , as if he was afraid of his ridicule , if he listened to the gipsy .
" But they will hear me ," said he , looking suspiciously at De Grey .
" _I_ shall not hear you ," said De Grey , " I am going ."
About ten of the most reasonable of the assembly declared their gratitude and high approbation of their old friend , De Grey ; but the numbers were in favour of the new friend .
They drew off on one side in triumph , and their leader , who knew the consequence of a name in party matters , immediately distinguished his partisans by the gallant name of ARCHERS , stigmatizing the friends of De Grey by the odious epithet of Greybeards .
The carpenter , De Grey ' s friend , was discarded by Archer , for having said " LACK - A - DAISY !"
I do not think proper to give my reasons for these orders ; but you who KNOW me ," said the doctor , and his eye turned towards De Grey , " will not suspect me of caprice .
Did you not observe how he looked at De Grey ?"
said De Grey , who was the only one who dared to oppose reason to the angry orator .
" Before I came here you reigned alone , now your reign is over , Mr . De Grey .
said De Grey .
" No ," said De Grey ; " for that very reason _I_ speak who do know him .
You don ' t know me , De Grey .
" Party ," repeated De Grey .
" You called me a Greybeard , but my name is De Grey ," said he , still laughing .
go back to De Grey !
De Grey and his friends , unconscious of what was going forward , walked out of the schoolroom as usual at bedtime .
" I like you now ," said the little boy , courageously ; " but I love De Grey better ; he has always been my friend , and he advised me never to call myself any of those names , Archer or Greybeard ; so I won ' t .
I love Dr . Middleton ; he was never unjust to ME , and I daresay that he has very good reasons , as De Grey said , for forbidding us to go into that house .
It was De Grey ' s voice .
De Grey for ever !
De Grey promised , upon his honour , that if he would unbar the door nobody should come in with him , and no advantage should be taken of them .
He pulled away the bar ; the door opened , and having bargained for the liberty of Melson , the little boy , who had been shut in by mistake , De Grey entered with his basket of provisions , when he locked and barred the door instantly .
" He does know ," answered De Grey ; " and the first thing I have to tell you is , that I am your fellow - prisoner .
But Archer , in whom half vanquished party spirit revived with the strength he had got from his breakfast , broke into exclamations in praise of De Grey ' s magnanimity , as he now imagined that De Grey had become one of themselves .
" No ," answered De Grey , calmly ; " but I hope to persuade , or rather to convince you , that you ought to join me ."
We unbarred the door upon the faith of De Grey ' s promise -- THAT was not giving up .
" But ," said De Grey , " when we yield , I hope it will not be merely to get our dinner , gentlemen .
Here ' s this Fisher , and a party of his Fishermen , were going to tie me hand and foot , if I had not knocked him down , just as you came to the door , De Grey ; and now perhaps you will join Fisher ' s party against me ."
De Grey was going to assure him that he had no intention of joining any party , when a sudden change appeared on Archer ' s countenance .
cried he , looking at De Grey , with triumph ; " that ' s a method of holding secret correspondence whilst a prisoner , which I learned from ' Richard Coeur de Lion .'
Townsend , who , in his prosperity as in adversity , saw and enjoyed the comic foibles of his friends , pushed De Grey , who was looking on with a more good - natured and more thoughtful air .
Archer had not given to this harangue all the attention which it deserved , for his eye was fixed upon De Grey .
" What is De Grey thinking of ?"
" I am thinking ," said De Grey , " that Dr . Middleton must believe that I have betrayed his confidence in me .
" De Grey !"
" That you may do ," said De Grey , stretching out his hand .
I give up for De Grey ' s sake .
" No ," said De Grey , " you shall not give up for my sake ."
said De Grey .
replied De Grey .
" Have not YOUR FEELINGS ," asked De Grey , " changed within these few hours ?"
" But you cannot think anything honourable , or the contrary ," observed De Grey , " without reasoning ; and as to what you call feeling , it ' s only a quick sort of reasoning ."
" Perhaps not ," said De Grey .
" You must , however , acknowledge ," replied De Grey , smiling , " that no man but a fool thinks it honourable to be in the wrong AT LAST .
" Why ," said De Grey , " should you suspect me of such a mean action , when you have never seen or known me do anything mean , and when in this instance you have no proofs ?"
" Will you give me your word and honour now , De Grey , before everybody here , that you did not do what I suspected ?"
" No ," replied De Grey ; " for I don ' t wish you to yield out of friendship to me , any more than to honour .
said De Grey ; " for now you are on THE BEST SIDE as well as myself , are not you ?
" De Grey , you were in the right ," whispered Archer , " and it was I that was UNJUST ."
To obtain credit for the tinder - box and candles , he made use of THIS name ," said he , turning to the other side of the bill , and pointing to De Grey ' s name , which was written at the end of a copy of one of De Grey ' s exercises .
When the people in the shop refused to let Mr . Fisher have the things without paying for them , he made use of De Grey ' s name , who was known there .
Nothing in this whole business gave me half so much pain as I felt , for a moment , when I suspected that De Grey was concerned in it ."
A loud cry , in which Archer ' s voice was heard most distinctly , declared De Grey ' s innocence .
In vain he solicited Archer and De Grey to intercede for him .
It was nearly six o ' clock , but only grey imperfect misty dawn , when we drew nigh the wharf .
It was one of those less lowering , but still grey and gloomy enough mornings of the transition , when with a fair wind the ship was rushing through the water with a vindictive sort of leaping and melancholy rapidity , that as I mounted to the deck at the call of the forenoon watch , so soon as I levelled my glance towards the taffrail , foreboding shivers ran over me .
Threading its way out from among his grey hairs , and continuing right down one side of his tawny scorched face and neck , till it disappeared in his clothing , you saw a slender rod - like mark , lividly whitish .
Yet , this wild hint seemed inferentially negatived , by what a grey Manxman insinuated , an old sepulchral man , who , having never before sailed out of Nantucket , had never ere this laid eye upon wild Ahab .
This thing that is meant for sereneness , to send up mild white vapours among mild white hairs , not among torn iron - grey locks like mine .
Here , then , was this grey - headed , ungodly old man , chasing with curses a Job ' s whale round the world , at the head of a crew , too , chiefly made up of mongrel renegades , and castaways , and cannibals -- morally enfeebled also , by the incompetence of mere unaided virtue or right - mindedness in Starbuck , the invunerable jollity of indifference and recklessness in Stubb , and the pervading mediocrity in Flask .
I assert , then , that in the wondrous bodily whiteness of the bird chiefly lurks the secret of the spell ; a truth the more evinced in this , that by a solecism of terms there are birds called grey albatrosses ; and these I have frequently seen , but never with such emotions as when I beheld the Antarctic fowl .
In short , he is what the fishermen technically call a " grey - headed whale ."
For while those female whales are characteristically timid , the young males , or forty - barrel - bulls , as they call them , are by far the most pugnacious of all Leviathans , and proverbially the most dangerous to encounter ; excepting those wondrous grey - headed , grizzled whales , sometimes met , and these will fight you like grim fiends exasperated by a penal gout .
Though the word ambergris is but the French compound for grey amber , yet the two substances are quite distinct .
Here Saturn ' s grey chaos rolls over me , and I obtain dim , shuddering glimpses into those Polar eternities ; when wedged bastions of ice pressed hard upon what are now the Tropics ; and in all the 25 , 000 miles of this world ' s circumference , not an inhabitable hand ' s breadth of land was visible .
He called one to him in the grey morning watch , when the day was just breaking , and taking his hand , said that while in Nantucket he had chanced to see certain little canoes of dark wood , like the rich war - wood of his native isle ; and upon inquiry , he had learned that all whalemen who died in Nantucket , were laid in those same dark canoes , and that the fancy of being so laid had much pleased him ; for it was not unlike the custom of his own race , who , after embalming a dead warrior , stretched him out in his canoe , and so left him to be floated away to the starry archipelagoes ; for not only do they believe that the stars are isles , but that far beyond all visible horizons , their own mild , uncontinented seas , interflow with the blue heavens ; and so form the white breakers of the milky way .
The blows of the basement hammer every day grew more and more between ; and each blow every day grew fainter than the last ; the wife sat frozen at the window , with tearless eyes , glitteringly gazing into the weeping faces of her children ; the bellows fell ; the forge choked up with cinders ; the house was sold ; the mother dived down into the long church - yard grass ; her children twice followed her thither ; and the houseless , familyless old man staggered off a vagabond in crape ; his every woe unreverenced ; his grey head a scorn to flaxen curls !
The grey dawn came on , and the slumbering crew arose from the boat ' s bottom , and ere noon the dead whale was brought to the ship .
With these grey hairs of mine ' tis not worth while disputing , ' specially with a superior , who ' ll ne ' er confess ."
Yet the grey Manxman -- the oldest mariner of all -- declared that the wild thrilling sounds that were heard , were the voices of newly drowned men in the sea .
Below in his hammock , Ahab did not hear of this till grey dawn , when he came to the deck ; it was then recounted to him by Flask , not unaccompanied with hinted dark meanings .
The grey - headed woodpecker tapping the hollow tree !
Locks so grey did never grow but from out some ashes !
bitter , biting mockery of grey hairs , have I lived enough joy to wear ye ; and seem and feel thus intolerably old ?
O pardon , Sir , it doth ; and yon grey Lines , That fret the Clouds , are Messengers of Day
