Heaven forbid !
" Good Heaven !"
I must get rid of every thing .-- There it goes , and there is an end , thank Heaven !
cried Emma , after a moment ' s pause --" What do you mean ?-- Good Heaven !
` In the name of heaven , who is that old fellow ?'
Miss Anne , if it had pleased Heaven to spare my poor son , I dare say he would have been just such another by this time ."
" Go to him , go to him ," cried Anne , " for heaven ' s sake go to him .
What , in heaven ' s name , is to be done next ?"
That he did not regard it as a desperate case , that he did not say a few hours must end it , was at first felt , beyond the hope of most ; and the ecstasy of such a reprieve , the rejoicing , deep and silent , after a few fervent ejaculations of gratitude to Heaven had been offered , may be conceived .
It was the choicest gift of Heaven ; and Anne viewed her friend as one of those instances in which , by a merciful appointment , it seems designed to counterbalance almost every other want .
And then , if I could convey to you the glow of his soul when he does see them again ; when , coming back after a twelvemonth ' s absence , perhaps , and obliged to put into another port , he calculates how soon it be possible to get them there , pretending to deceive himself , and saying , ` They cannot be here till such a day ,' but all the while hoping for them twelve hours sooner , and seeing them arrive at last , as if Heaven had given them wings , by many hours sooner still !
Thank Heaven !
" Yes ; and heaven knows how much longer we may have to wait .
Lady Middleton looked as if she thanked heaven that SHE had never made so rude a speech .
Tell me , Willoughby ; for heaven ' s sake tell me , what is the matter ?"
I should be sorry to have YOU ill ; you , that have been the greatest comfort to me in the world !-- Heaven knows what I should have done without your friendship ."
The sight of you , Edward , is the only comfort it has afforded ; and thank Heaven !
Thank Heaven !
1 : 1 In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth .
1 : 8 And God called the firmament Heaven .
1 : 9 And God said , Let the waters under the heaven be gathered together unto one place , and let the dry land appear : and it was so .
1 : 14 And God said , Let there be lights in the firmament of the heaven to divide the day from the night ; and let them be for signs , and for seasons , and for days , and years : 1 : 15 And let them be for lights in the firmament of the heaven to give light upon the earth : and it was so .
1 : 17 And God set them in the firmament of the heaven to give light upon the earth , 1 : 18 And to rule over the day and over the night , and to divide the light from the darkness : and God saw that it was good .
1 : 20 And God said , Let the waters bring forth abundantly the moving creature that hath life , and fowl that may fly above the earth in the open firmament of heaven .
6 : 17 And , behold , I , even I , do bring a flood of waters upon the earth , to destroy all flesh , wherein is the breath of life , from under heaven ; and every thing that is in the earth shall die .
7 : 11 In the six hundredth year of Noah ' s life , in the second month , the seventeenth day of the month , the same day were all the fountains of the great deep broken up , and the windows of heaven were opened .
7 : 19 And the waters prevailed exceedingly upon the earth ; and all the high hills , that were under the whole heaven , were covered .
7 : 23 And every living substance was destroyed which was upon the face of the ground , both man , and cattle , and the creeping things , and the fowl of the heaven ; and they were destroyed from the earth : and Noah only remained alive , and they that were with him in the ark .
8 : 1 And God remembered Noah , and every living thing , and all the cattle that was with him in the ark : and God made a wind to pass over the earth , and the waters asswaged ; 8 : 2 The fountains also of the deep and the windows of heaven were stopped , and the rain from heaven was restrained ; 8 : 3 And the waters returned from off the earth continually : and after the end of the hundred and fifty days the waters were abated .
11 : 4 And they said , Go to , let us build us a city and a tower , whose top may reach unto heaven ; and let us make us a name , lest we be scattered abroad upon the face of the whole earth .
14 : 19 And he blessed him , and said , Blessed be Abram of the most high God , possessor of heaven and earth : 14 : 20 And blessed be the most high God , which hath delivered thine enemies into thy hand .
14 : 22 And Abram said to the king of Sodom , I have lift up mine hand unto the LORD , the most high God , the possessor of heaven and earth , 14 : 23 That I will not take from a thread even to a shoelatchet , and that I will not take any thing that is thine , lest thou shouldest say , I have made Abram rich : 14 : 24 Save only that which the young men have eaten , and the portion of the men which went with me , Aner , Eshcol , and Mamre ; let them take their portion .
15 : 5 And he brought him forth abroad , and said , Look now toward heaven , and tell the stars , if thou be able to number them : and he said unto him , So shall thy seed be .
19 : 24 Then the LORD rained upon Sodom and upon Gomorrah brimstone and fire from the LORD out of heaven ; 19 : 25 And he overthrew those cities , and all the plain , and all the inhabitants of the cities , and that which grew upon the ground .
21 : 17 And God heard the voice of the lad ; and the angel of God called to Hagar out of heaven , and said unto her , What aileth thee , Hagar ?
22 : 11 And the angel of the LORD called unto him out of heaven , and said , Abraham , Abraham : and he said , Here am I .
22 : 15 And the angel of the LORD called unto Abraham out of heaven the second time , 22 : 16 And said , By myself have I sworn , saith the LORD , for because thou hast done this thing , and hast not withheld thy son , thine only son : 22 : 17 That in blessing I will bless thee , and in multiplying I will multiply thy seed as the stars of the heaven , and as the sand which is upon the sea shore ; and thy seed shall possess the gate of his enemies ; 22 : 18 And in thy seed shall all the nations of the earth be blessed ; because thou hast obeyed my voice .
24 : 2 And Abraham said unto his eldest servant of his house , that ruled over all that he had , Put , I pray thee , thy hand under my thigh : 24 : 3 And I will make thee swear by the LORD , the God of heaven , and the God of the earth , that thou shalt not take a wife unto my son of the daughters of the Canaanites , among whom I dwell : 24 : 4 But thou shalt go unto my country , and to my kindred , and take a wife unto my son Isaac .
24 : 7 The LORD God of heaven , which took me from my father ' s house , and from the land of my kindred , and which spake unto me , and that sware unto me , saying , Unto thy seed will I give this land ; he shall send his angel before thee , and thou shalt take a wife unto my son from thence .
26 : 2 And the LORD appeared unto him , and said , Go not down into Egypt ; dwell in the land which I shall tell thee of : 26 : 3 Sojourn in this land , and I will be with thee , and will bless thee ; for unto thee , and unto thy seed , I will give all these countries , and I will perform the oath which I sware unto Abraham thy father ; 26 : 4 And I will make thy seed to multiply as the stars of heaven , and will give unto thy seed all these countries ; and in thy seed shall all the nations of the earth be blessed ; 26 : 5 Because that Abraham obeyed my voice , and kept my charge , my commandments , my statutes , and my laws .
27 : 27 And he came near , and kissed him : and he smelled the smell of his raiment , and blessed him , and said , See , the smell of my son is as the smell of a field which the LORD hath blessed : 27 : 28 Therefore God give thee of the dew of heaven , and the fatness of the earth , and plenty of corn and wine : 27 : 29 Let people serve thee , and nations bow down to thee : be lord over thy brethren , and let thy mother ' s sons bow down to thee : cursed be every one that curseth thee , and blessed be he that blesseth thee .
27 : 39 And Isaac his father answered and said unto him , Behold , thy dwelling shall be the fatness of the earth , and of the dew of heaven from above ; 27 : 40 And by thy sword shalt thou live , and shalt serve thy brother ; and it shall come to pass when thou shalt have the dominion , that thou shalt break his yoke from off thy neck .
28 : 12 And he dreamed , and behold a ladder set up on the earth , and the top of it reached to heaven : and behold the angels of God ascending and descending on it .
this is none other but the house of God , and this is the gate of heaven .
49 : 22 Joseph is a fruitful bough , even a fruitful bough by a well ; whose branches run over the wall : 49 : 23 The archers have sorely grieved him , and shot at him , and hated him : 49 : 24 But his bow abode in strength , and the arms of his hands were made strong by the hands of the mighty God of Jacob ; ( from thence is the shepherd , the stone of Israel :) 49 : 25 Even by the God of thy father , who shall help thee ; and by the Almighty , who shall bless thee with blessings of heaven above , blessings of the deep that lieth under , blessings of the breasts , and of the womb : 49 : 26 The blessings of thy father have prevailed above the blessings of my progenitors unto the utmost bound of the everlasting hills : they shall be on the head of Joseph , and on the crown of the head of him that was separate from his brethren .
9 : 8 And the LORD said unto Moses and unto Aaron , Take to you handfuls of ashes of the furnace , and let Moses sprinkle it toward the heaven in the sight of Pharaoh .
9 : 10 And they took ashes of the furnace , and stood before Pharaoh ; and Moses sprinkled it up toward heaven ; and it became a boil breaking forth with blains upon man , and upon beast .
9 : 22 And the LORD said unto Moses , Stretch forth thine hand toward heaven , that there may be hail in all the land of Egypt , upon man , and upon beast , and upon every herb of the field , throughout the land of Egypt .
9 : 23 And Moses stretched forth his rod toward heaven : and the LORD sent thunder and hail , and the fire ran along upon the ground ; and the LORD rained hail upon the land of Egypt .
10 : 21 And the LORD said unto Moses , Stretch out thine hand toward heaven , that there may be darkness over the land of Egypt , even darkness which may be felt .
10 : 22 And Moses stretched forth his hand toward heaven ; and there was a thick darkness in all the land of Egypt three days : 10 : 23 They saw not one another , neither rose any from his place for three days : but all the children of Israel had light in their dwellings .
16 : 4 Then said the LORD unto Moses , Behold , I will rain bread from heaven for you ; and the people shall go out and gather a certain rate every day , that I may prove them , whether they will walk in my law , or no .
17 : 14 And the LORD said unto Moses , Write this for a memorial in a book , and rehearse it in the ears of Joshua : for I will utterly put out the remembrance of Amalek from under heaven .
20 : 4 Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image , or any likeness of any thing that is in heaven above , or that is in the earth beneath , or that is in the water under the earth .
20 : 9 Six days shalt thou labour , and do all thy work : 20 : 10 But the seventh day is the sabbath of the LORD thy God : in it thou shalt not do any work , thou , nor thy son , nor thy daughter , thy manservant , nor thy maidservant , nor thy cattle , nor thy stranger that is within thy gates : 20 : 11 For in six days the LORD made heaven and earth , the sea , and all that in them is , and rested the seventh day : wherefore the LORD blessed the sabbath day , and hallowed it .
20 : 22 And the LORD said unto Moses , Thus thou shalt say unto the children of Israel , Ye have seen that I have talked with you from heaven .
24 : 9 Then went up Moses , and Aaron , Nadab , and Abihu , and seventy of the elders of Israel : 24 : 10 And they saw the God of Israel : and there was under his feet as it were a paved work of a sapphire stone , and as it were the body of heaven in his clearness .
31 : 17 It is a sign between me and the children of Israel for ever : for in six days the LORD made heaven and earth , and on the seventh day he rested , and was refreshed .
32 : 13 Remember Abraham , Isaac , and Israel , thy servants , to whom thou swarest by thine own self , and saidst unto them , I will multiply your seed as the stars of heaven , and all this land that I have spoken of will I give unto your seed , and they shall inherit it for ever .
26 : 19 And I will break the pride of your power ; and I will make your heaven as iron , and your earth as brass : 26 : 20 And your strength shall be spent in vain : for your land shall not yield her increase , neither shall the trees of the land yield their fruits .
1 : 9 And I spake unto you at that time , saying , I am not able to bear you myself alone : 1 : 10 The LORD your God hath multiplied you , and , behold , ye are this day as the stars of heaven for multitude .
our brethren have discouraged our heart , saying , The people is greater and taller than we ; the cities are great and walled up to heaven ; and moreover we have seen the sons of the Anakims there .
2 : 25 This day will I begin to put the dread of thee and the fear of thee upon the nations that are under the whole heaven , who shall hear report of thee , and shall tremble , and be in anguish because of thee .
3 : 23 And I besought the LORD at that time , saying , 3 : 24 O Lord GOD , thou hast begun to shew thy servant thy greatness , and thy mighty hand : for what God is there in heaven or in earth , that can do according to thy works , and according to thy might ?
4 : 11 And ye came near and stood under the mountain ; and the mountain burned with fire unto the midst of heaven , with darkness , clouds , and thick darkness .
4 : 15 Take ye therefore good heed unto yourselves ; for ye saw no manner of similitude on the day that the LORD spake unto you in Horeb out of the midst of the fire : 4 : 16 Lest ye corrupt yourselves , and make you a graven image , the similitude of any figure , the likeness of male or female , 4 : 17 The likeness of any beast that is on the earth , the likeness of any winged fowl that flieth in the air , 4 : 18 The likeness of any thing that creepeth on the ground , the likeness of any fish that is in the waters beneath the earth : 4 : 19 And lest thou lift up thine eyes unto heaven , and when thou seest the sun , and the moon , and the stars , even all the host of heaven , shouldest be driven to worship them , and serve them , which the LORD thy God hath divided unto all nations under the whole heaven .
4 : 25 When thou shalt beget children , and children ' s children , and ye shall have remained long in the land , and shall corrupt yourselves , and make a graven image , or the likeness of any thing , and shall do evil in the sight of the LORD thy God , to provoke him to anger : 4 : 26 I call heaven and earth to witness against you this day , that ye shall soon utterly perish from off the land whereunto ye go over Jordan to possess it ; ye shall not prolong your days upon it , but shall utterly be destroyed .
4 : 32 For ask now of the days that are past , which were before thee , since the day that God created man upon the earth , and ask from the one side of heaven unto the other , whether there hath been any such thing as this great thing is , or hath been heard like it ?
4 : 36 Out of heaven he made thee to hear his voice , that he might instruct thee : and upon earth he shewed thee his great fire ; and thou heardest his words out of the midst of the fire .
4 : 39 Know therefore this day , and consider it in thine heart , that the LORD he is God in heaven above , and upon the earth beneath : there is none else .
5 : 8 Thou shalt not make thee any graven image , or any likeness of any thing that is in heaven above , or that is in the earth beneath , or that is in the waters beneath the earth : 5 : 9 Thou shalt not bow down thyself unto them , nor serve them : for I the LORD thy God am a jealous God , visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children unto the third and fourth generation of them that hate me , 5 : 10 And shewing mercy unto thousands of them that love me and keep my commandments .
7 : 24 And he shall deliver their kings into thine hand , and thou shalt destroy their name from under heaven : there shall no man be able to stand before thee , until thou have destroyed them .
9 : 1 Hear , O Israel : Thou art to pass over Jordan this day , to go in to possess nations greater and mightier than thyself , cities great and fenced up to heaven , 9 : 2 A people great and tall , the children of the Anakims , whom thou knowest , and of whom thou hast heard say , Who can stand before the children of Anak !
9 : 13 Furthermore the LORD spake unto me , saying , I have seen this people , and , behold , it is a stiffnecked people : 9 : 14 Let me alone , that I may destroy them , and blot out their name from under heaven : and I will make of thee a nation mightier and greater than they .
10 : 14 Behold , the heaven and the heaven of heavens is the LORD ' s thy God , the earth also , with all that therein is .
10 : 22 Thy fathers went down into Egypt with threescore and ten persons ; and now the LORD thy God hath made thee as the stars of heaven for multitude .
11 : 10 For the land , whither thou goest in to possess it , is not as the land of Egypt , from whence ye came out , where thou sowedst thy seed , and wateredst it with thy foot , as a garden of herbs : 11 : 11 But the land , whither ye go to possess it , is a land of hills and valleys , and drinketh water of the rain of heaven : 11 : 12 A land which the LORD thy God careth for : the eyes of the LORD thy God are always upon it , from the beginning of the year even unto the end of the year .
11 : 16 Take heed to yourselves , that your heart be not deceived , and ye turn aside , and serve other gods , and worship them ; 11 : 17 And then the LORD ' s wrath be kindled against you , and he shut up the heaven , that there be no rain , and that the land yield not her fruit ; and lest ye perish quickly from off the good land which the LORD giveth you .
11 : 20 And thou shalt write them upon the door posts of thine house , and upon thy gates : 11 : 21 That your days may be multiplied , and the days of your children , in the land which the LORD sware unto your fathers to give them , as the days of heaven upon the earth .
17 : 2 If there be found among you , within any of thy gates which the LORD thy God giveth thee , man or woman , that hath wrought wickedness in the sight of the LORD thy God , in transgressing his covenant , 17 : 3 And hath gone and served other gods , and worshipped them , either the sun , or moon , or any of the host of heaven , which I have not commanded ; 17 : 4 And it be told thee , and thou hast heard of it , and enquired diligently , and , behold , it be true , and the thing certain , that such abomination is wrought in Israel : 17 : 5 Then shalt thou bring forth that man or that woman , which have committed that wicked thing , unto thy gates , even that man or that woman , and shalt stone them with stones , till they die .
25 : 19 Therefore it shall be , when the LORD thy God hath given thee rest from all thine enemies round about , in the land which the LORD thy God giveth thee for an inheritance to possess it , that thou shalt blot out the remembrance of Amalek from under heaven ; thou shalt not forget it .
26 : 15 Look down from thy holy habitation , from heaven , and bless thy people Israel , and the land which thou hast given us , as thou swarest unto our fathers , a land that floweth with milk and honey .
28 : 12 The LORD shall open unto thee his good treasure , the heaven to give the rain unto thy land in his season , and to bless all the work of thine hand : and thou shalt lend unto many nations , and thou shalt not borrow .
28 : 23 And thy heaven that is over thy head shall be brass , and the earth that is under thee shall be iron .
28 : 24 The LORD shall make the rain of thy land powder and dust : from heaven shall it come down upon thee , until thou be destroyed .
28 : 62 And ye shall be left few in number , whereas ye were as the stars of heaven for multitude ; because thou wouldest not obey the voice of the LORD thy God .
29 : 14 Neither with you only do I make this covenant and this oath ; 29 : 15 But with him that standeth here with us this day before the LORD our God , and also with him that is not here with us this day : 29 : 16 ( For ye know how we have dwelt in the land of Egypt ; and how we came through the nations which ye passed by ; 29 : 17 And ye have seen their abominations , and their idols , wood and stone , silver and gold , which were among them :) 29 : 18 Lest there should be among you man , or woman , or family , or tribe , whose heart turneth away this day from the LORD our God , to go and serve the gods of these nations ; lest there should be among you a root that beareth gall and wormwood ; 29 : 19 And it come to pass , when he heareth the words of this curse , that he bless himself in his heart , saying , I shall have peace , though I walk in the imagination of mine heart , to add drunkenness to thirst : 29 : 20 The LORD will not spare him , but then the anger of the LORD and his jealousy shall smoke against that man , and all the curses that are written in this book shall lie upon him , and the LORD shall blot out his name from under heaven .
30 : 4 If any of thine be driven out unto the outmost parts of heaven , from thence will the LORD thy God gather thee , and from thence will he fetch thee : 30 : 5 And the LORD thy God will bring thee into the land which thy fathers possessed , and thou shalt possess it ; and he will do thee good , and multiply thee above thy fathers .
30 : 12 It is not in heaven , that thou shouldest say , Who shall go up for us to heaven , and bring it unto us , that we may hear it , and do it ?
30 : 19 I call heaven and earth to record this day against you , that I have set before you life and death , blessing and cursing : therefore choose life , that both thou and thy seed may live : 30 : 20 That thou mayest love the LORD thy God , and that thou mayest obey his voice , and that thou mayest cleave unto him : for he is thy life , and the length of thy days : that thou mayest dwell in the land which the LORD sware unto thy fathers , to Abraham , to Isaac , and to Jacob , to give them .
31 : 28 Gather unto me all the elders of your tribes , and your officers , that I may speak these words in their ears , and call heaven and earth to record against them .
32 : 40 For I lift up my hand to heaven , and say , I live for ever .
33 : 13 And of Joseph he said , Blessed of the LORD be his land , for the precious things of heaven , for the dew , and for the deep that coucheth beneath , 33 : 14 And for the precious fruits brought forth by the sun , and for the precious things put forth by the moon , 33 : 15 And for the chief things of the ancient mountains , and for the precious things of the lasting hills , 33 : 16 And for the precious things of the earth and fulness thereof , and for the good will of him that dwelt in the bush : let the blessing come upon the head of Joseph , and upon the top of the head of him that was separated from his brethren .
33 : 26 There is none like unto the God of Jeshurun , who rideth upon the heaven in thy help , and in his excellency on the sky .
2 : 11 And as soon as we had heard these things , our hearts did melt , neither did there remain any more courage in any man , because of you : for the LORD your God , he is God in heaven above , and in earth beneath .
8 : 20 And when the men of Ai looked behind them , they saw , and , behold , the smoke of the city ascended up to heaven , and they had no power to flee this way or that way : and the people that fled to the wilderness turned back upon the pursuers .
10 : 11 And it came to pass , as they fled from before Israel , and were in the going down to Bethhoron , that the LORD cast down great stones from heaven upon them unto Azekah , and they died : they were more which died with hailstones than they whom the children of Israel slew with the sword .
So the sun stood still in the midst of heaven , and hasted not to go down about a whole day .
5 : 20 They fought from heaven ; the stars in their courses fought against Sisera .
13 : 20 For it came to pass , when the flame went up toward heaven from off the altar , that the angel of the LORD ascended in the flame of the altar .
20 : 40 But when the flame began to arise up out of the city with a pillar of smoke , the Benjamites looked behind them , and , behold , the flame of the city ascended up to heaven .
2 : 10 The adversaries of the LORD shall be broken to pieces ; out of heaven shall he thunder upon them : the LORD shall judge the ends of the earth ; and he shall give strength unto his king , and exalt the horn of his anointed .
5 : 12 And the men that died not were smitten with the emerods : and the cry of the city went up to heaven .
And Absalom rode upon a mule , and the mule went under the thick boughs of a great oak , and his head caught hold of the oak , and he was taken up between the heaven and the earth ; and the mule that was under him went away .
21 : 10 And Rizpah the daughter of Aiah took sackcloth , and spread it for her upon the rock , from the beginning of harvest until water dropped upon them out of heaven , and suffered neither the birds of the air to rest on them by day , nor the beasts of the field by night .
22 : 8 Then the earth shook and trembled ; the foundations of heaven moved and shook , because he was wroth .
22 : 14 The LORD thundered from heaven , and the most High uttered his voice .
8 : 22 And Solomon stood before the altar of the LORD in the presence of all the congregation of Israel , and spread forth his hands toward heaven : 8 : 23 And he said , LORD God of Israel , there is no God like thee , in heaven above , or on earth beneath , who keepest covenant and mercy with thy servants that walk before thee with all their heart : 8 : 24 Who hast kept with thy servant David my father that thou promisedst him : thou spakest also with thy mouth , and hast fulfilled it with thine hand , as it is this day .
behold , the heaven and heaven of heavens cannot contain thee ; how much less this house that I have builded ?
8 : 30 And hearken thou to the supplication of thy servant , and of thy people Israel , when they shall pray toward this place : and hear thou in heaven thy dwelling place : and when thou hearest , forgive .
8 : 31 If any man trespass against his neighbour , and an oath be laid upon him to cause him to swear , and the oath come before thine altar in this house : 8 : 32 Then hear thou in heaven , and do , and judge thy servants , condemning the wicked , to bring his way upon his head ; and justifying the righteous , to give him according to his righteousness .
8 : 33 When thy people Israel be smitten down before the enemy , because they have sinned against thee , and shall turn again to thee , and confess thy name , and pray , and make supplication unto thee in this house : 8 : 34 Then hear thou in heaven , and forgive the sin of thy people Israel , and bring them again unto the land which thou gavest unto their fathers .
8 : 35 When heaven is shut up , and there is no rain , because they have sinned against thee ; if they pray toward this place , and confess thy name , and turn from their sin , when thou afflictest them : 8 : 36 Then hear thou in heaven , and forgive the sin of thy servants , and of thy people Israel , that thou teach them the good way wherein they should walk , and give rain upon thy land , which thou hast given to thy people for an inheritance .
8 : 37 If there be in the land famine , if there be pestilence , blasting , mildew , locust , or if there be caterpiller ; if their enemy besiege them in the land of their cities ; whatsoever plague , whatsoever sickness there be ; 8 : 38 What prayer and supplication soever be made by any man , or by all thy people Israel , which shall know every man the plague of his own heart , and spread forth his hands toward this house : 8 : 39 Then hear thou in heaven thy dwelling place , and forgive , and do , and give to every man according to his ways , whose heart thou knowest ; ( for thou , even thou only , knowest the hearts of all the children of men ;) 8 : 40 That they may fear thee all the days that they live in the land which thou gavest unto our fathers .
8 : 41 Moreover concerning a stranger , that is not of thy people Israel , but cometh out of a far country for thy name ' s sake ; 8 : 42 ( For they shall hear of thy great name , and of thy strong hand , and of thy stretched out arm ;) when he shall come and pray toward this house ; 8 : 43 Hear thou in heaven thy dwelling place , and do according to all that the stranger calleth to thee for : that all people of the earth may know thy name , to fear thee , as do thy people Israel ; and that they may know that this house , which I have builded , is called by thy name .
8 : 44 If thy people go out to battle against their enemy , whithersoever thou shalt send them , and shall pray unto the LORD toward the city which thou hast chosen , and toward the house that I have built for thy name : 8 : 45 Then hear thou in heaven their prayer and their supplication , and maintain their cause .
8 : 46 If they sin against thee , ( for there is no man that sinneth not ,) and thou be angry with them , and deliver them to the enemy , so that they carry them away captives unto the land of the enemy , far or near ; 8 : 47 Yet if they shall bethink themselves in the land whither they were carried captives , and repent , and make supplication unto thee in the land of them that carried them captives , saying , We have sinned , and have done perversely , we have committed wickedness ; 8 : 48 And so return unto thee with all their heart , and with all their soul , in the land of their enemies , which led them away captive , and pray unto thee toward their land , which thou gavest unto their fathers , the city which thou hast chosen , and the house which I have built for thy name : 8 : 49 Then hear thou their prayer and their supplication in heaven thy dwelling place , and maintain their cause , 8 : 50 And forgive thy people that have sinned against thee , and all their transgressions wherein they have transgressed against thee , and give them compassion before them who carried them captive , that they may have compassion on them : 8 : 51 For they be thy people , and thine inheritance , which thou broughtest forth out of Egypt , from the midst of the furnace of iron : 8 : 52 That thine eyes may be open unto the supplication of thy servant , and unto the supplication of thy people Israel , to hearken unto them in all that they call for unto thee .
8 : 54 And it was so , that when Solomon had made an end of praying all this prayer and supplication unto the LORD , he arose from before the altar of the LORD , from kneeling on his knees with his hands spread up to heaven .
18 : 45 And it came to pass in the mean while , that the heaven was black with clouds and wind , and there was a great rain .
22 : 19 And he said , Hear thou therefore the word of the LORD : I saw the LORD sitting on his throne , and all the host of heaven standing by him on his right hand and on his left .
1 : 10 And Elijah answered and said to the captain of fifty , If I be a man of God , then let fire come down from heaven , and consume thee and thy fifty .
And there came down fire from heaven , and consumed him and his fifty .
1 : 12 And Elijah answered and said unto them , If I be a man of God , let fire come down from heaven , and consume thee and thy fifty .
And the fire of God came down from heaven , and consumed him and his fifty .
1 : 14 Behold , there came fire down from heaven , and burnt up the two captains of the former fifties with their fifties : therefore let my life now be precious in thy sight .
2 : 1 And it came to pass , when the LORD would take up Elijah into heaven by a whirlwind , that Elijah went with Elisha from Gilgal .
2 : 11 And it came to pass , as they still went on , and talked , that , behold , there appeared a chariot of fire , and horses of fire , and parted them both asunder ; and Elijah went up by a whirlwind into heaven .
7 : 2 Then a lord on whose hand the king leaned answered the man of God , and said , Behold , if the LORD would make windows in heaven , might this thing be ?
7 : 18 And it came to pass as the man of God had spoken to the king , saying , Two measures of barley for a shekel , and a measure of fine flour for a shekel , shall be to morrow about this time in the gate of Samaria : 7 : 19 And that lord answered the man of God , and said , Now , behold , if the LORD should make windows in heaven , might such a thing be ?
14 : 27 And the LORD said not that he would blot out the name of Israel from under heaven : but he saved them by the hand of Jeroboam the son of Joash .
17 : 16 And they left all the commandments of the LORD their God , and made them molten images , even two calves , and made a grove , and worshipped all the host of heaven , and served Baal .
19 : 15 And Hezekiah prayed before the LORD , and said , O LORD God of Israel , which dwellest between the cherubims , thou art the God , even thou alone , of all the kingdoms of the earth ; thou hast made heaven and earth .
21 : 3 For he built up again the high places which Hezekiah his father had destroyed ; and he reared up altars for Baal , and made a grove , as did Ahab king of Israel ; and worshipped all the host of heaven , and served them .
21 : 5 And he built altars for all the host of heaven in the two courts of the house of the LORD .
23 : 4 And the king commanded Hilkiah the high priest , and the priests of the second order , and the keepers of the door , to bring forth out of the temple of the LORD all the vessels that were made for Baal , and for the grove , and for all the host of heaven : and he burned them without Jerusalem in the fields of Kidron , and carried the ashes of them unto Bethel .
23 : 5 And he put down the idolatrous priests , whom the kings of Judah had ordained to burn incense in the high places in the cities of Judah , and in the places round about Jerusalem ; them also that burned incense unto Baal , to the sun , and to the moon , and to the planets , and to all the host of heaven .
21 : 16 And David lifted up his eyes , and saw the angel of the LORD stand between the earth and the heaven , having a drawn sword in his hand stretched out over Jerusalem .
21 : 26 And David built there an altar unto the LORD , and offered burnt offerings and peace offerings , and called upon the LORD ; and he answered him from heaven by fire upon the altar of burnt offering .
29 : 11 Thine , O LORD is the greatness , and the power , and the glory , and the victory , and the majesty : for all that is in the heaven and in the earth is thine ; thine is the kingdom , O LORD , and thou art exalted as head above all .
2 : 6 But who is able to build him an house , seeing the heaven and heaven of heavens cannot contain him ?
2 : 12 Huram said moreover , Blessed be the LORD God of Israel , that made heaven and earth , who hath given to David the king a wise son , endued with prudence and understanding , that might build an house for the LORD , and an house for his kingdom .
6 : 12 And he stood before the altar of the LORD in the presence of all the congregation of Israel , and spread forth his hands : 6 : 13 For Solomon had made a brasen scaffold of five cubits long , and five cubits broad , and three cubits high , and had set it in the midst of the court : and upon it he stood , and kneeled down upon his knees before all the congregation of Israel , and spread forth his hands toward heaven .
6 : 14 And said , O LORD God of Israel , there is no God like thee in the heaven , nor in the earth ; which keepest covenant , and shewest mercy unto thy servants , that walk before thee with all their hearts : 6 : 15 Thou which hast kept with thy servant David my father that which thou hast promised him ; and spakest with thy mouth , and hast fulfilled it with thine hand , as it is this day .
behold , heaven and the heaven of heavens cannot contain thee ; how much less this house which I have built !
6 : 21 Hearken therefore unto the supplications of thy servant , and of thy people Israel , which they shall make toward this place : hear thou from thy dwelling place , even from heaven ; and when thou hearest , forgive .
6 : 22 If a man sin against his neighbour , and an oath be laid upon him to make him swear , and the oath come before thine altar in this house ; 6 : 23 Then hear thou from heaven , and do , and judge thy servants , by requiting the wicked , by recompensing his way upon his own head ; and by justifying the righteous , by giving him according to his righteousness .
6 : 26 When the heaven is shut up , and there is no rain , because they have sinned against thee ; yet if they pray toward this place , and confess thy name , and turn from their sin , when thou dost afflict them ; 6 : 27 Then hear thou from heaven , and forgive the sin of thy servants , and of thy people Israel , when thou hast taught them the good way , wherein they should walk ; and send rain upon thy land , which thou hast given unto thy people for an inheritance .
6 : 28 If there be dearth in the land , if there be pestilence , if there be blasting , or mildew , locusts , or caterpillers ; if their enemies besiege them in the cities of their land ; whatsoever sore or whatsoever sickness there be : 6 : 29 Then what prayer or what supplication soever shall be made of any man , or of all thy people Israel , when every one shall know his own sore and his own grief , and shall spread forth his hands in this house : 6 : 30 Then hear thou from heaven thy dwelling place , and forgive , and render unto every man according unto all his ways , whose heart thou knowest ; ( for thou only knowest the hearts of the children of men :) 6 : 31 That they may fear thee , to walk in thy ways , so long as they live in the land which thou gavest unto our fathers .
7 : 1 Now when Solomon had made an end of praying , the fire came down from heaven , and consumed the burnt offering and the sacrifices ; and the glory of the LORD filled the house .
7 : 13 If I shut up heaven that there be no rain , or if I command the locusts to devour the land , or if I send pestilence among my people ; 7 : 14 If my people , which are called by my name , shall humble themselves , and pray , and seek my face , and turn from their wicked ways ; then will I hear from heaven , and will forgive their sin , and will heal their land .
18 : 18 Again he said , Therefore hear the word of the LORD ; I saw the LORD sitting upon his throne , and all the host of heaven standing on his right hand and on his left .
20 : 5 And Jehoshaphat stood in the congregation of Judah and Jerusalem , in the house of the LORD , before the new court , 20 : 6 And said , O LORD God of our fathers , art not thou God in heaven ?
28 : 9 But a prophet of the LORD was there , whose name was Oded : and he went out before the host that came to Samaria , and said unto them , Behold , because the LORD God of your fathers was wroth with Judah , he hath delivered them into your hand , and ye have slain them in a rage that reacheth up unto heaven .
30 : 27 Then the priests the Levites arose and blessed the people : and their voice was heard , and their prayer came up to his holy dwelling place , even unto heaven .
32 : 20 And for this cause Hezekiah the king , and the prophet Isaiah the son of Amoz , prayed and cried to heaven .
33 : 3 For he built again the high places which Hezekiah his father had broken down , and he reared up altars for Baalim , and made groves , and worshipped all the host of heaven , and served them .
33 : 5 And he built altars for all the host of heaven in the two courts of the house of the LORD .
36 : 22 Now in the first year of Cyrus king of Persia , that the word of the LORD spoken by the mouth of Jeremiah might be accomplished , the LORD stirred up the spirit of Cyrus king of Persia , that he made a proclamation throughout all his kingdom , and put it also in writing , saying , 36 : 23 Thus saith Cyrus king of Persia , All the kingdoms of the earth hath the LORD God of heaven given me ; and he hath charged me to build him an house in Jerusalem , which is in Judah .
1 : 1 Now in the first year of Cyrus king of Persia , that the word of the LORD by the mouth of Jeremiah might be fulfilled , the LORD stirred up the spirit of Cyrus king of Persia , that he made a proclamation throughout all his kingdom , and put it also in writing , saying , 1 : 2 Thus saith Cyrus king of Persia , The LORD God of heaven hath given me all the kingdoms of the earth ; and he hath charged me to build him an house at Jerusalem , which is in Judah .
5 : 11 And thus they returned us answer , saying , We are the servants of the God of heaven and earth , and build the house that was builded these many years ago , which a great king of Israel builded and set up .
5 : 12 But after that our fathers had provoked the God of heaven unto wrath , he gave them into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon , the Chaldean , who destroyed this house , and carried the people away into Babylon .
6 : 9 And that which they have need of , both young bullocks , and rams , and lambs , for the burnt offerings of the God of heaven , wheat , salt , wine , and oil , according to the appointment of the priests which are at Jerusalem , let it be given them day by day without fail : 6 : 10 That they may offer sacrifices of sweet savours unto the God of heaven , and pray for the life of the king , and of his sons .
7 : 12 Artaxerxes , king of kings , unto Ezra the priest , a scribe of the law of the God of heaven , perfect peace , and at such a time .
7 : 21 And I , even I Artaxerxes the king , do make a decree to all the treasurers which are beyond the river , that whatsoever Ezra the priest , the scribe of the law of the God of heaven , shall require of you , it be done speedily , 7 : 22 Unto an hundred talents of silver , and to an hundred measures of wheat , and to an hundred baths of wine , and to an hundred baths of oil , and salt without prescribing how much .
7 : 23 Whatsoever is commanded by the God of heaven , let it be diligently done for the house of the God of heaven : for why should there be wrath against the realm of the king and his sons ?
1 : 4 And it came to pass , when I heard these words , that I sat down and wept , and mourned certain days , and fasted , and prayed before the God of heaven , 1 : 5 And said , I beseech thee , O LORD God of heaven , the great and terrible God , that keepeth covenant and mercy for them that love him and observe his commandments : 1 : 6 Let thine ear now be attentive , and thine eyes open , that thou mayest hear the prayer of thy servant , which I pray before thee now , day and night , for the children of Israel thy servants , and confess the sins of the children of Israel , which we have sinned against thee : both I and my father ' s house have sinned .
1 : 8 Remember , I beseech thee , the word that thou commandedst thy servant Moses , saying , If ye transgress , I will scatter you abroad among the nations : 1 : 9 But if ye turn unto me , and keep my commandments , and do them ; though there were of you cast out unto the uttermost part of the heaven , yet will I gather them from thence , and will bring them unto the place that I have chosen to set my name there .
So I prayed to the God of heaven .
2 : 20 Then answered I them , and said unto them , The God of heaven , he will prosper us ; therefore we his servants will arise and build : but ye have no portion , nor right , nor memorial , in Jerusalem .
9 : 6 Thou , even thou , art LORD alone ; thou hast made heaven , the heaven of heavens , with all their host , the earth , and all things that are therein , the seas , and all that is therein , and thou preservest them all ; and the host of heaven worshippeth thee .
9 : 13 Thou camest down also upon mount Sinai , and spakest with them from heaven , and gavest them right judgments , and true laws , good statutes and commandments : 9 : 14 And madest known unto them thy holy sabbath , and commandedst them precepts , statutes , and laws , by the hand of Moses thy servant : 9 : 15 And gavest them bread from heaven for their hunger , and broughtest forth water for them out of the rock for their thirst , and promisedst them that they should go in to possess the land which thou hadst sworn to give them .
9 : 23 Their children also multipliedst thou as the stars of heaven , and broughtest them into the land , concerning which thou hadst promised to their fathers , that they should go in to possess it .
9 : 27 Therefore thou deliveredst them into the hand of their enemies , who vexed them : and in the time of their trouble , when they cried unto thee , thou heardest them from heaven ; and according to thy manifold mercies thou gavest them saviours , who saved them out of the hand of their enemies .
9 : 28 But after they had rest , they did evil again before thee : therefore leftest thou them in the land of their enemies , so that they had the dominion over them : yet when they returned , and cried unto thee , thou heardest them from heaven ; and many times didst thou deliver them according to thy mercies ; 9 : 29 And testifiedst against them , that thou mightest bring them again unto thy law : yet they dealt proudly , and hearkened not unto thy commandments , but sinned against thy judgments , ( which if a man do , he shall live in them ;) and withdrew the shoulder , and hardened their neck , and would not hear .
1 : 16 While he was yet speaking , there came also another , and said , The fire of God is fallen from heaven , and hath burned up the sheep , and the servants , and consumed them ; and I only am escaped alone to tell thee .
2 : 12 And when they lifted up their eyes afar off , and knew him not , they lifted up their voice , and wept ; and they rent every one his mantle , and sprinkled dust upon their heads toward heaven .
11 : 8 It is as high as heaven ; what canst thou do ?
16 : 19 Also now , behold , my witness is in heaven , and my record is on high .
20 : 27 The heaven shall reveal his iniquity ; and the earth shall rise up against him .
22 : 12 Is not God in the height of heaven ?
22 : 14 Thick clouds are a covering to him , that he seeth not ; and he walketh in the circuit of heaven .
26 : 11 The pillars of heaven tremble and are astonished at his reproof .
28 : 24 For he looketh to the ends of the earth , and seeth under the whole heaven ; 28 : 25 To make the weight for the winds ; and he weigheth the waters by measure .
35 : 10 But none saith , Where is God my maker , who giveth songs in the night ; 35 : 11 Who teacheth us more than the beasts of the earth , and maketh us wiser than the fowls of heaven ?
37 : 3 He directeth it under the whole heaven , and his lightning unto the ends of the earth .
and the hoary frost of heaven , who hath gendered it ?
38 : 33 Knowest thou the ordinances of heaven ?
or who can stay the bottles of heaven , 38 : 38 When the dust groweth into hardness , and the clods cleave fast together ?
whatsoever is under the whole heaven is mine .
11 : 4 The LORD is in his holy temple , the LORD ' s throne is in heaven : his eyes behold , his eyelids try , the children of men .
14 : 2 The LORD looked down from heaven upon the children of men , to see if there were any that did understand , and seek God .
19 : 6 His going forth is from the end of the heaven , and his circuit unto the ends of it : and there is nothing hid from the heat thereof .
20 : 6 Now know I that the LORD saveth his anointed ; he will hear him from his holy heaven with the saving strength of his right hand .
33 : 13 The LORD looketh from heaven ; he beholdeth all the sons of men .
53 : 2 God looked down from heaven upon the children of men , to see if there were any that did understand , that did seek God .
57 : 3 He shall send from heaven , and save me from the reproach of him that would swallow me up .
69 : 34 Let the heaven and earth praise him , the seas , and every thing that moveth therein .
73 : 25 Whom have I in heaven but thee ?
76 : 8 Thou didst cause judgment to be heard from heaven ; the earth feared , and was still ,
77 : 18 The voice of thy thunder was in the heaven : the lightnings lightened the world : the earth trembled and shook .
78 : 23 Though he had commanded the clouds from above , and opened the doors of heaven ,
78 : 24 And had rained down manna upon them to eat , and had given them of the corn of heaven .
78 : 26 He caused an east wind to blow in the heaven : and by his power he brought in the south wind .
79 : 2 The dead bodies of thy servants have they given to be meat unto the fowls of the heaven , the flesh of thy saints unto the beasts of the earth .
80 : 14 Return , we beseech thee , O God of hosts : look down from heaven , and behold , and visit this vine ;
85 : 11 Truth shall spring out of the earth ; and righteousness shall look down from heaven .
89 : 6 For who in the heaven can be compared unto the LORD ?
89 : 29 His seed also will I make to endure for ever , and his throne as the days of heaven .
89 : 37 It shall be established for ever as the moon , and as a faithful witness in heaven .
102 : 19 For he hath looked down from the height of his sanctuary ; from heaven did the LORD behold the earth ;
103 : 11 For as the heaven is high above the earth , so great is his mercy toward them that fear him .
104 : 12 By them shall the fowls of the heaven have their habitation , which sing among the branches .
105 : 40 The people asked , and he brought quails , and satisfied them with the bread of heaven .
107 : 26 They mount up to the heaven , they go down again to the depths : their soul is melted because of trouble .
113 : 6 Who humbleth himself to behold the things that are in heaven , and in the earth !
115 : 15 Ye are blessed of the LORD which made heaven and earth .
115 : 16 The heaven , even the heavens , are the LORD ' s : but the earth hath he given to the children of men .
119 : 89 For ever , O LORD , thy word is settled in heaven .
121 : 2 My help cometh from the LORD , which made heaven and earth .
124 : 8 Our help is in the name of the LORD , who made heaven and earth .
134 : 3 The LORD that made heaven and earth bless thee out of Zion .
135 : 6 Whatsoever the LORD pleased , that did he in heaven , and in earth , in the seas , and all deep places .
136 : 26 O give thanks unto the God of heaven : for his mercy endureth for ever .
139 : 8 If I ascend up into heaven , thou art there : if I make my bed in hell , behold , thou art there .
146 : 6 Which made heaven , and earth , the sea , and all that therein is : which keepeth truth for ever :
147 : 8 Who covereth the heaven with clouds , who prepareth rain for the earth , who maketh grass to grow upon the mountains .
148 : 13 Let them praise the name of the LORD : for his name alone is excellent ; his glory is above the earth and heaven .
for riches certainly make themselves wings ; they fly away as an eagle toward heaven .
25 : 3 The heaven for height , and the earth for depth , and the heart of kings is unsearchable .
30 : 4 Who hath ascended up into heaven , or descended ?
1 : 13 And I gave my heart to seek and search out by wisdom concerning all things that are done under heaven : this sore travail hath God given to the sons of man to be exercised therewith .
2 : 3 I sought in mine heart to give myself unto wine , yet acquainting mine heart with wisdom ; and to lay hold on folly , till I might see what was that good for the sons of men , which they should do under the heaven all the days of their life .
3 : 1 To every thing there is a season , and a time to every purpose under the heaven : 3 : 2 A time to be born , and a time to die ; a time to plant , and a time to pluck up that which is planted ; 3 : 3 A time to kill , and a time to heal ; a time to break down , and a time to build up ; 3 : 4 A time to weep , and a time to laugh ; a time to mourn , and a time to dance ; 3 : 5 A time to cast away stones , and a time to gather stones together ; a time to embrace , and a time to refrain from embracing ; 3 : 6 A time to get , and a time to lose ; a time to keep , and a time to cast away ; 3 : 7 A time to rend , and a time to sew ; a time to keep silence , and a time to speak ; 3 : 8 A time to love , and a time to hate ; a time of war , and a time of peace .
5 : 2 Be not rash with thy mouth , and let not thine heart be hasty to utter any thing before God : for God is in heaven , and thou upon earth : therefore let thy words be few .
13 : 5 They come from a far country , from the end of heaven , even the LORD , and the weapons of his indignation , to destroy the whole land .
13 : 10 For the stars of heaven and the constellations thereof shall not give their light : the sun shall be darkened in his going forth , and the moon shall not cause her light to shine .
14 : 12 How art thou fallen from heaven , O Lucifer , son of the morning !
14 : 13 For thou hast said in thine heart , I will ascend into heaven , I will exalt my throne above the stars of God : I will sit also upon the mount of the congregation , in the sides of the north : 14 : 14 I will ascend above the heights of the clouds ; I will be like the most High .
34 : 4 And all the host of heaven shall be dissolved , and the heavens shall be rolled together as a scroll : and all their host shall fall down , as the leaf falleth off from the vine , and as a falling fig from the fig tree .
34 : 5 For my sword shall be bathed in heaven : behold , it shall come down upon Idumea , and upon the people of my curse , to judgment .
37 : 15 And Hezekiah prayed unto the LORD , saying , 37 : 16 O LORD of hosts , God of Israel , that dwellest between the cherubims , thou art the God , even thou alone , of all the kingdoms of the earth : thou hast made heaven and earth .
40 : 12 Who hath measured the waters in the hollow of his hand , and meted out heaven with the span , and comprehended the dust of the earth in a measure , and weighed the mountains in scales , and the hills in a balance ?
55 : 10 For as the rain cometh down , and the snow from heaven , and returneth not thither , but watereth the earth , and maketh it bring forth and bud , that it may give seed to the sower , and bread to the eater : 55 : 11 So shall my word be that goeth forth out of my mouth : it shall not return unto me void , but it shall accomplish that which I please , and it shall prosper in the thing whereto I sent it .
63 : 15 Look down from heaven , and behold from the habitation of thy holiness and of thy glory : where is thy zeal and thy strength , the sounding of thy bowels and of thy mercies toward me ?
66 : 1 Thus saith the LORD , The heaven is my throne , and the earth is my footstool : where is the house that ye build unto me ?
7 : 18 The children gather wood , and the fathers kindle the fire , and the women knead their dough , to make cakes to the queen of heaven , and to pour out drink offerings unto other gods , that they may provoke me to anger .
7 : 33 And the carcases of this people shall be meat for the fowls of the heaven , and for the beasts of the earth ; and none shall fray them away .
8 : 1 At that time , saith the LORD , they shall bring out the bones of the kings of Judah , and the bones of his princes , and the bones of the priests , and the bones of the prophets , and the bones of the inhabitants of Jerusalem , out of their graves : 8 : 2 And they shall spread them before the sun , and the moon , and all the host of heaven , whom they have loved , and whom they have served , and after whom they have walked , and whom they have sought , and whom they have worshipped : they shall not be gathered , nor be buried ; they shall be for dung upon the face of the earth .
8 : 7 Yea , the stork in the heaven knoweth her appointed times ; and the turtle and the crane and the swallow observe the time of their coming ; but my people know not the judgment of the LORD .
10 : 1 Hear ye the word which the LORD speaketh unto you , O house of Israel : 10 : 2 Thus saith the LORD , Learn not the way of the heathen , and be not dismayed at the signs of heaven ; for the heathen are dismayed at them .
15 : 3 And I will appoint over them four kinds , saith the LORD : the sword to slay , and the dogs to tear , and the fowls of the heaven , and the beasts of the earth , to devour and destroy .
16 : 3 For thus saith the LORD concerning the sons and concerning the daughters that are born in this place , and concerning their mothers that bare them , and concerning their fathers that begat them in this land ; 16 : 4 They shall die of grievous deaths ; they shall not be lamented ; neither shall they be buried ; but they shall be as dung upon the face of the earth : and they shall be consumed by the sword , and by famine ; and their carcases shall be meat for the fowls of heaven , and for the beasts of the earth .
19 : 7 And I will make void the counsel of Judah and Jerusalem in this place ; and I will cause them to fall by the sword before their enemies , and by the hands of them that seek their lives : and their carcases will I give to be meat for the fowls of the heaven , and for the beasts of the earth .
19 : 12 Thus will I do unto this place , saith the LORD , and to the inhabitants thereof , and even make this city as Tophet : 19 : 13 And the houses of Jerusalem , and the houses of the kings of Judah , shall be defiled as the place of Tophet , because of all the houses upon whose roofs they have burned incense unto all the host of heaven , and have poured out drink offerings unto other gods .
Do not I fill heaven and earth ?
31 : 37 Thus saith the LORD ; If heaven above can be measured , and the foundations of the earth searched out beneath , I will also cast off all the seed of Israel for all that they have done , saith the LORD .
behold , thou hast made the heaven and the earth by thy great power and stretched out arm , and there is nothing too hard for thee : 32 : 18 Thou shewest lovingkindness unto thousands , and recompensest the iniquity of the fathers into the bosom of their children after them : the Great , the Mighty God , the LORD of hosts , is his name , 32 : 19 Great in counsel , and mighty in work : for thine eyes are open upon all the ways of the sons of men : to give every one according to his ways , and according to the fruit of his doings : 32 : 20 Which hast set signs and wonders in the land of Egypt , even unto this day , and in Israel , and among other men ; and hast made thee a name , as at this day ; 32 : 21 And hast brought forth thy people Israel out of the land of Egypt with signs , and with wonders , and with a strong hand , and with a stretched out arm , and with great terror ; 32 : 22 And hast given them this land , which thou didst swear to their fathers to give them , a land flowing with milk and honey ; 32 : 23 And they came in , and possessed it ; but they obeyed not thy voice , neither walked in thy law ; they have done nothing of all that thou commandedst them to do : therefore thou hast caused all this evil to come upon them : 32 : 24 Behold the mounts , they are come unto the city to take it ; and the city is given into the hand of the Chaldeans , that fight against it , because of the sword , and of the famine , and of the pestilence : and what thou hast spoken is come to pass ; and , behold , thou seest it .
33 : 22 As the host of heaven cannot be numbered , neither the sand of the sea measured : so will I multiply the seed of David my servant , and the Levites that minister unto me .
33 : 25 Thus saith the LORD ; If my covenant be not with day and night , and if I have not appointed the ordinances of heaven and earth ; 33 : 26 Then will I cast away the seed of Jacob and David my servant , so that I will not take any of his seed to be rulers over the seed of Abraham , Isaac , and Jacob : for I will cause their captivity to return , and have mercy on them .
34 : 18 And I will give the men that have transgressed my covenant , which have not performed the words of the covenant which they had made before me , when they cut the calf in twain , and passed between the parts thereof , 34 : 19 The princes of Judah , and the princes of Jerusalem , the eunuchs , and the priests , and all the people of the land , which passed between the parts of the calf ; 34 : 20 I will even give them into the hand of their enemies , and into the hand of them that seek their life : and their dead bodies shall be for meat unto the fowls of the heaven , and to the beasts of the earth .
44 : 17 But we will certainly do whatsoever thing goeth forth out of our own mouth , to burn incense unto the queen of heaven , and to pour out drink offerings unto her , as we have done , we , and our fathers , our kings , and our princes , in the cities of Judah , and in the streets of Jerusalem : for then had we plenty of victuals , and were well , and saw no evil .
44 : 18 But since we left off to burn incense to the queen of heaven , and to pour out drink offerings unto her , we have wanted all things , and have been consumed by the sword and by the famine .
44 : 19 And when we burned incense to the queen of heaven , and poured out drink offerings unto her , did we make her cakes to worship her , and pour out drink offerings unto her , without our men ?
44 : 24 Moreover Jeremiah said unto all the people , and to all the women , Hear the word of the LORD , all Judah that are in the land of Egypt : 44 : 25 Thus saith the LORD of hosts , the God of Israel , saying ; Ye and your wives have both spoken with your mouths , and fulfilled with your hand , saying , We will surely perform our vows that we have vowed , to burn incense to the queen of heaven , and to pour out drink offerings unto her : ye will surely accomplish your vows , and surely perform your vows .
49 : 36 And upon Elam will I bring the four winds from the four quarters of heaven , and will scatter them toward all those winds ; and there shall be no nation whither the outcasts of Elam shall not come .
51 : 9 We would have healed Babylon , but she is not healed : forsake her , and let us go every one into his own country : for her judgment reacheth unto heaven , and is lifted up even to the skies .
51 : 15 He hath made the earth by his power , he hath established the world by his wisdom , and hath stretched out the heaven by his understanding .
51 : 48 Then the heaven and the earth , and all that is therein , shall sing for Babylon : for the spoilers shall come unto her from the north , saith the LORD .
51 : 53 Though Babylon should mount up to heaven , and though she should fortify the height of her strength , yet from me shall spoilers come unto her , saith the LORD .
2 : 1 How hath the LORD covered the daughter of Zion with a cloud in his anger , and cast down from heaven unto the earth the beauty of Israel , and remembered not his footstool in the day of his anger !
3 : 50 Till the LORD look down , and behold from heaven .
4 : 19 Our persecutors are swifter than the eagles of the heaven : they pursued us upon the mountains , they laid wait for us in the wilderness .
8 : 3 And he put forth the form of an hand , and took me by a lock of mine head ; and the spirit lifted me up between the earth and the heaven , and brought me in the visions of God to Jerusalem , to the door of the inner gate that looketh toward the north ; where was the seat of the image of jealousy , which provoketh to jealousy .
29 : 5 And I will leave thee thrown into the wilderness , thee and all the fish of thy rivers : thou shalt fall upon the open fields ; thou shalt not be brought together , nor gathered : I have given thee for meat to the beasts of the field and to the fowls of the heaven .
31 : 6 All the fowls of heaven made their nests in his boughs , and under his branches did all the beasts of the field bring forth their young , and under his shadow dwelt all great nations .
31 : 13 Upon his ruin shall all the fowls of the heaven remain , and all the beasts of the field shall be upon his branches : 31 : 14 To the end that none of all the trees by the waters exalt themselves for their height , neither shoot up their top among the thick boughs , neither their trees stand up in their height , all that drink water : for they are all delivered unto death , to the nether parts of the earth , in the midst of the children of men , with them that go down to the pit .
32 : 4 Then will I leave thee upon the land , I will cast thee forth upon the open field , and will cause all the fowls of the heaven to remain upon thee , and I will fill the beasts of the whole earth with thee .
32 : 7 And when I shall put thee out , I will cover the heaven , and make the stars thereof dark ; I will cover the sun with a cloud , and the moon shall not give her light .
32 : 8 All the bright lights of heaven will I make dark over thee , and set darkness upon thy land , saith the Lord GOD .
38 : 19 For in my jealousy and in the fire of my wrath have I spoken , Surely in that day there shall be a great shaking in the land of Israel ; 38 : 20 So that the fishes of the sea , and the fowls of the heaven , and the beasts of the field , and all creeping things that creep upon the earth , and all the men that are upon the face of the earth , shall shake at my presence , and the mountains shall be thrown down , and the steep places shall fall , and every wall shall fall to the ground .
2 : 17 Then Daniel went to his house , and made the thing known to Hananiah , Mishael , and Azariah , his companions : 2 : 18 That they would desire mercies of the God of heaven concerning this secret ; that Daniel and his fellows should not perish with the rest of the wise men of Babylon .
Then Daniel blessed the God of heaven .
2 : 27 Daniel answered in the presence of the king , and said , The secret which the king hath demanded cannot the wise men , the astrologers , the magicians , the soothsayers , shew unto the king ; 2 : 28 But there is a God in heaven that revealeth secrets , and maketh known to the king Nebuchadnezzar what shall be in the latter days .
2 : 37 Thou , O king , art a king of kings : for the God of heaven hath given thee a kingdom , power , and strength , and glory .
2 : 38 And wheresoever the children of men dwell , the beasts of the field and the fowls of the heaven hath he given into thine hand , and hath made thee ruler over them all .
2 : 44 And in the days of these kings shall the God of heaven set up a kingdom , which shall never be destroyed : and the kingdom shall not be left to other people , but it shall break in pieces and consume all these kingdoms , and it shall stand for ever .
4 : 11 The tree grew , and was strong , and the height thereof reached unto heaven , and the sight thereof to the end of all the earth : 4 : 12 The leaves thereof were fair , and the fruit thereof much , and in it was meat for all : the beasts of the field had shadow under it , and the fowls of the heaven dwelt in the boughs thereof , and all flesh was fed of it .
4 : 13 I saw in the visions of my head upon my bed , and , behold , a watcher and an holy one came down from heaven ; 4 : 14 He cried aloud , and said thus , Hew down the tree , and cut off his branches , shake off his leaves , and scatter his fruit : let the beasts get away from under it , and the fowls from his branches : 4 : 15 Nevertheless leave the stump of his roots in the earth , even with a band of iron and brass , in the tender grass of the field ; and let it be wet with the dew of heaven , and let his portion be with the beasts in the grass of the earth : 4 : 16 Let his heart be changed from man ' s , and let a beast ' s heart be given unto him ; and let seven times pass over him .
4 : 20 The tree that thou sawest , which grew , and was strong , whose height reached unto the heaven , and the sight thereof to all the earth ; 4 : 21 Whose leaves were fair , and the fruit thereof much , and in it was meat for all ; under which the beasts of the field dwelt , and upon whose branches the fowls of the heaven had their habitation : 4 : 22 It is thou , O king , that art grown and become strong : for thy greatness is grown , and reacheth unto heaven , and thy dominion to the end of the earth .
4 : 23 And whereas the king saw a watcher and an holy one coming down from heaven , and saying , Hew the tree down , and destroy it ; yet leave the stump of the roots thereof in the earth , even with a band of iron and brass , in the tender grass of the field ; and let it be wet with the dew of heaven , and let his portion be with the beasts of the field , till seven times pass over him ; 4 : 24 This is the interpretation , O king , and this is the decree of the most High , which is come upon my lord the king : 4 : 25 That they shall drive thee from men , and thy dwelling shall be with the beasts of the field , and they shall make thee to eat grass as oxen , and they shall wet thee with the dew of heaven , and seven times shall pass over thee , till thou know that the most High ruleth in the kingdom of men , and giveth it to whomsoever he will .
4 : 31 While the word was in the king ' s mouth , there fell a voice from heaven , saying , O king Nebuchadnezzar , to thee it is spoken ; The kingdom is departed from thee .
4 : 33 The same hour was the thing fulfilled upon Nebuchadnezzar : and he was driven from men , and did eat grass as oxen , and his body was wet with the dew of heaven , till his hairs were grown like eagles ' feathers , and his nails like birds ' claws .
4 : 34 And at the end of the days I Nebuchadnezzar lifted up mine eyes unto heaven , and mine understanding returned unto me , and I blessed the most High , and I praised and honoured him that liveth for ever , whose dominion is an everlasting dominion , and his kingdom is from generation to generation : 4 : 35 And all the inhabitants of the earth are reputed as nothing : and he doeth according to his will in the army of heaven , and among the inhabitants of the earth : and none can stay his hand , or say unto him , What doest thou ?
4 : 37 Now I Nebuchadnezzar praise and extol and honour the King of heaven , all whose works are truth , and his ways judgment : and those that walk in pride he is able to abase .
5 : 20 But when his heart was lifted up , and his mind hardened in pride , he was deposed from his kingly throne , and they took his glory from him : 5 : 21 And he was driven from the sons of men ; and his heart was made like the beasts , and his dwelling was with the wild asses : they fed him with grass like oxen , and his body was wet with the dew of heaven ; till he knew that the most high God ruled in the kingdom of men , and that he appointeth over it whomsoever he will .
5 : 22 And thou his son , O Belshazzar , hast not humbled thine heart , though thou knewest all this ; 5 : 23 But hast lifted up thyself against the Lord of heaven ; and they have brought the vessels of his house before thee , and thou , and thy lords , thy wives , and thy concubines , have drunk wine in them ; and thou hast praised the gods of silver , and gold , of brass , iron , wood , and stone , which see not , nor hear , nor know : and the God in whose hand thy breath is , and whose are all thy ways , hast thou not glorified : 5 : 24 Then was the part of the hand sent from him ; and this writing was written .
6 : 27 He delivereth and rescueth , and he worketh signs and wonders in heaven and in earth , who hath delivered Daniel from the power of the lions .
7 : 2 Daniel spake and said , I saw in my vision by night , and , behold , the four winds of the heaven strove upon the great sea .
7 : 13 I saw in the night visions , and , behold , one like the Son of man came with the clouds of heaven , and came to the Ancient of days , and they brought him near before him .
7 : 27 And the kingdom and dominion , and the greatness of the kingdom under the whole heaven , shall be given to the people of the saints of the most High , whose kingdom is an everlasting kingdom , and all dominions shall serve and obey him .
8 : 8 Therefore the he goat waxed very great : and when he was strong , the great horn was broken ; and for it came up four notable ones toward the four winds of heaven .
8 : 10 And it waxed great , even to the host of heaven ; and it cast down some of the host and of the stars to the ground , and stamped upon them .
9 : 12 And he hath confirmed his words , which he spake against us , and against our judges that judged us , by bringing upon us a great evil : for under the whole heaven hath not been done as hath been done upon Jerusalem .
11 : 4 And when he shall stand up , his kingdom shall be broken , and shall be divided toward the four winds of heaven ; and not to his posterity , nor according to his dominion which he ruled : for his kingdom shall be plucked up , even for others beside those .
12 : 7 And I heard the man clothed in linen , which was upon the waters of the river , when he held up his right hand and his left hand unto heaven , and sware by him that liveth for ever that it shall be for a time , times , and an half ; and when he shall have accomplished to scatter the power of the holy people , all these things shall be finished .
2 : 18 And in that day will I make a covenant for them with the beasts of the field and with the fowls of heaven , and with the creeping things of the ground : and I will break the bow and the sword and the battle out of the earth , and will make them to lie down safely .
4 : 3 Therefore shall the land mourn , and every one that dwelleth therein shall languish , with the beasts of the field , and with the fowls of heaven ; yea , the fishes of the sea also shall be taken away .
7 : 12 When they shall go , I will spread my net upon them ; I will bring them down as the fowls of the heaven ; I will chastise them , as their congregation hath heard .
9 : 2 Though they dig into hell , thence shall mine hand take them ; though they climb up to heaven , thence will I bring them down : 9 : 3 And though they hide themselves in the top of Carmel , I will search and take them out thence ; and though they be hid from my sight in the bottom of the sea , thence will I command the serpent , and he shall bite them : 9 : 4 And though they go into captivity before their enemies , thence will I command the sword , and it shall slay them : and I will set mine eyes upon them for evil , and not for good .
9 : 6 It is he that buildeth his stories in the heaven , and hath founded his troop in the earth ; he that calleth for the waters of the sea , and poureth them out upon the face of the earth : The LORD is his name .
1 : 9 And he said unto them , I am an Hebrew ; and I fear the LORD , the God of heaven , which hath made the sea and the dry land .
3 : 16 Thou hast multiplied thy merchants above the stars of heaven : the cankerworm spoileth , and fleeth away .
1 : 3 I will consume man and beast ; I will consume the fowls of the heaven , and the fishes of the sea , and the stumbling blocks with the wicked : and I will cut off man from off the land , saith the LORD .
1 : 4 I will also stretch out mine hand upon Judah , and upon all the inhabitants of Jerusalem ; and I will cut off the remnant of Baal from this place , and the name of the Chemarims with the priests ; 1 : 5 And them that worship the host of heaven upon the housetops ; and them that worship and that swear by the LORD , and that swear by Malcham ; 1 : 6 And them that are turned back from the LORD ; and those that have not sought the LORD , nor enquired for him .
1 : 10 Therefore the heaven over you is stayed from dew , and the earth is stayed from her fruit .
2 : 6 Ho , ho , come forth , and flee from the land of the north , saith the LORD : for I have spread you abroad as the four winds of the heaven , saith the LORD .
5 : 9 Then lifted I up mine eyes , and looked , and , behold , there came out two women , and the wind was in their wings ; for they had wings like the wings of a stork : and they lifted up the ephah between the earth and the heaven .
3 : 10 Bring ye all the tithes into the storehouse , that there may be meat in mine house , and prove me now herewith , saith the LORD of hosts , if I will not open you the windows of heaven , and pour you out a blessing , that there shall not be room enough to receive it .
3 : 1 In those days came John the Baptist , preaching in the wilderness of Judaea , 3 : 2 And saying , Repent ye : for the kingdom of heaven is at hand .
3 : 16 And Jesus , when he was baptized , went up straightway out of the water : and , lo , the heavens were opened unto him , and he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove , and lighting upon him : 3 : 17 And lo a voice from heaven , saying , This is my beloved Son , in whom I am well pleased .
4 : 17 From that time Jesus began to preach , and to say , Repent : for the kingdom of heaven is at hand .
5 : 1 And seeing the multitudes , he went up into a mountain : and when he was set , his disciples came unto him : 5 : 2 And he opened his mouth , and taught them , saying , 5 : 3 Blessed are the poor in spirit : for theirs is the kingdom of heaven .
5 : 10 Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness ' sake : for theirs is the kingdom of heaven .
5 : 12 Rejoice , and be exceeding glad : for great is your reward in heaven : for so persecuted they the prophets which were before you .
5 : 16 Let your light so shine before men , that they may see your good works , and glorify your Father which is in heaven .
5 : 18 For verily I say unto you , Till heaven and earth pass , one jot or one tittle shall in no wise pass from the law , till all be fulfilled .
5 : 19 Whosoever therefore shall break one of these least commandments , and shall teach men so , he shall be called the least in the kingdom of heaven : but whosoever shall do and teach them , the same shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven .
5 : 20 For I say unto you , That except your righteousness shall exceed the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees , ye shall in no case enter into the kingdom of heaven .
5 : 33 Again , ye have heard that it hath been said by them of old time , Thou shalt not forswear thyself , but shalt perform unto the Lord thine oaths : 5 : 34 But I say unto you , Swear not at all ; neither by heaven ; for it is God ' s throne : 5 : 35 Nor by the earth ; for it is his footstool : neither by Jerusalem ; for it is the city of the great King .
5 : 44 But I say unto you , Love your enemies , bless them that curse you , do good to them that hate you , and pray for them which despitefully use you , and persecute you ; 5 : 45 That ye may be the children of your Father which is in heaven : for he maketh his sun to rise on the evil and on the good , and sendeth rain on the just and on the unjust .
5 : 48 Be ye therefore perfect , even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect .
6 : 1 Take heed that ye do not your alms before men , to be seen of them : otherwise ye have no reward of your Father which is in heaven .
6 : 9 After this manner therefore pray ye : Our Father which art in heaven , Hallowed be thy name .
6 : 10 Thy kingdom come , Thy will be done in earth , as it is in heaven .
6 : 19 Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth , where moth and rust doth corrupt , and where thieves break through and steal : 6 : 20 But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven , where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt , and where thieves do not break through nor steal : 6 : 21 For where your treasure is , there will your heart be also .
7 : 11 If ye then , being evil , know how to give good gifts unto your children , how much more shall your Father which is in heaven give good things to them that ask him ?
7 : 21 Not every one that saith unto me , Lord , Lord , shall enter into the kingdom of heaven ; but he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven .
8 : 11 And I say unto you , That many shall come from the east and west , and shall sit down with Abraham , and Isaac , and Jacob , in the kingdom of heaven .
10 : 7 And as ye go , preach , saying , The kingdom of heaven is at hand .
10 : 32 Whosoever therefore shall confess me before men , him will I confess also before my Father which is in heaven .
10 : 33 But whosoever shall deny me before men , him will I also deny before my Father which is in heaven .
11 : 11 Verily I say unto you , Among them that are born of women there hath not risen a greater than John the Baptist : notwithstanding he that is least in the kingdom of heaven is greater than he .
11 : 12 And from the days of John the Baptist until now the kingdom of heaven suffereth violence , and the violent take it by force .
11 : 23 And thou , Capernaum , which art exalted unto heaven , shalt be brought down to hell : for if the mighty works , which have been done in thee , had been done in Sodom , it would have remained until this day .
11 : 25 At that time Jesus answered and said , I thank thee , O Father , Lord of heaven and earth , because thou hast hid these things from the wise and prudent , and hast revealed them unto babes .
12 : 50 For whosoever shall do the will of my Father which is in heaven , the same is my brother , and sister , and mother .
13 : 11 He answered and said unto them , Because it is given unto you to know the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven , but to them it is not given .
13 : 24 Another parable put he forth unto them , saying , The kingdom of heaven is likened unto a man which sowed good seed in his field : 13 : 25 But while men slept , his enemy came and sowed tares among the wheat , and went his way .
13 : 31 Another parable put he forth unto them , saying , The kingdom of heaven is like to a grain of mustard seed , which a man took , and sowed in his field : 13 : 32 Which indeed is the least of all seeds : but when it is grown , it is the greatest among herbs , and becometh a tree , so that the birds of the air come and lodge in the branches thereof .
13 : 33 Another parable spake he unto them ; The kingdom of heaven is like unto leaven , which a woman took , and hid in three measures of meal , till the whole was leavened .
13 : 44 Again , the kingdom of heaven is like unto treasure hid in a field ; the which when a man hath found , he hideth , and for joy thereof goeth and selleth all that he hath , and buyeth that field .
13 : 45 Again , the kingdom of heaven is like unto a merchant man , seeking goodly pearls : 13 : 46 Who , when he had found one pearl of great price , went and sold all that he had , and bought it .
13 : 47 Again , the kingdom of heaven is like unto a net , that was cast into the sea , and gathered of every kind : 13 : 48 Which , when it was full , they drew to shore , and sat down , and gathered the good into vessels , but cast the bad away .
13 : 52 Then said he unto them , Therefore every scribe which is instructed unto the kingdom of heaven is like unto a man that is an householder , which bringeth forth out of his treasure things new and old .
14 : 19 And he commanded the multitude to sit down on the grass , and took the five loaves , and the two fishes , and looking up to heaven , he blessed , and brake , and gave the loaves to his disciples , and the disciples to the multitude .
16 : 1 The Pharisees also with the Sadducees came , and tempting desired him that he would shew them a sign from heaven .
16 : 17 And Jesus answered and said unto him , Blessed art thou , Simon Barjona : for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee , but my Father which is in heaven .
16 : 19 And I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven : and whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth shall be bound in heaven : and whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven .
18 : 1 At the same time came the disciples unto Jesus , saying , Who is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven ?
18 : 2 And Jesus called a little child unto him , and set him in the midst of them , 18 : 3 And said , Verily I say unto you , Except ye be converted , and become as little children , ye shall not enter into the kingdom of heaven .
18 : 4 Whosoever therefore shall humble himself as this little child , the same is greatest in the kingdom of heaven .
18 : 10 Take heed that ye despise not one of these little ones ; for I say unto you , That in heaven their angels do always behold the face of my Father which is in heaven .
18 : 14 Even so it is not the will of your Father which is in heaven , that one of these little ones should perish .
18 : 18 Verily I say unto you , Whatsoever ye shall bind on earth shall be bound in heaven : and whatsoever ye shall loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven .
18 : 19 Again I say unto you , That if two of you shall agree on earth as touching any thing that they shall ask , it shall be done for them of my Father which is in heaven .
18 : 23 Therefore is the kingdom of heaven likened unto a certain king , which would take account of his servants .
19 : 12 For there are some eunuchs , which were so born from their mother ' s womb : and there are some eunuchs , which were made eunuchs of men : and there be eunuchs , which have made themselves eunuchs for the kingdom of heaven ' s sake .
19 : 14 But Jesus said , Suffer little children , and forbid them not , to come unto me : for of such is the kingdom of heaven .
19 : 21 Jesus said unto him , If thou wilt be perfect , go and sell that thou hast , and give to the poor , and thou shalt have treasure in heaven : and come and follow me .
19 : 23 Then said Jesus unto his disciples , Verily I say unto you , That a rich man shall hardly enter into the kingdom of heaven .
20 : 1 For the kingdom of heaven is like unto a man that is an householder , which went out early in the morning to hire labourers into his vineyard .
from heaven , or of men ?
And they reasoned with themselves , saying , If we shall say , From heaven ; he will say unto us , Why did ye not then believe him ?
22 : 1 And Jesus answered and spake unto them again by parables , and said , 22 : 2 The kingdom of heaven is like unto a certain king , which made a marriage for his son , 22 : 3 And sent forth his servants to call them that were bidden to the wedding : and they would not come .
22 : 30 For in the resurrection they neither marry , nor are given in marriage , but are as the angels of God in heaven .
23 : 9 And call no man your father upon the earth : for one is your Father , which is in heaven .
for ye shut up the kingdom of heaven against men : for ye neither go in yourselves , neither suffer ye them that are entering to go in .
23 : 22 And he that shall swear by heaven , sweareth by the throne of God , and by him that sitteth thereon .
24 : 29 Immediately after the tribulation of those days shall the sun be darkened , and the moon shall not give her light , and the stars shall fall from heaven , and the powers of the heavens shall be shaken : 24 : 30 And then shall appear the sign of the Son of man in heaven : and then shall all the tribes of the earth mourn , and they shall see the Son of man coming in the clouds of heaven with power and great glory .
24 : 31 And he shall send his angels with a great sound of a trumpet , and they shall gather together his elect from the four winds , from one end of heaven to the other .
24 : 35 Heaven and earth shall pass away , but my words shall not pass away .
24 : 36 But of that day and hour knoweth no man , no , not the angels of heaven , but my Father only .
25 : 1 Then shall the kingdom of heaven be likened unto ten virgins , which took their lamps , and went forth to meet the bridegroom .
25 : 14 For the kingdom of heaven is as a man travelling into a far country , who called his own servants , and delivered unto them his goods .
26 : 64 Jesus saith unto him , Thou hast said : nevertheless I say unto you , Hereafter shall ye see the Son of man sitting on the right hand of power , and coming in the clouds of heaven .
28 : 2 And , behold , there was a great earthquake : for the angel of the Lord descended from heaven , and came and rolled back the stone from the door , and sat upon it .
28 : 18 And Jesus came and spake unto them , saying , All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth .
1 : 10 And straightway coming up out of the water , he saw the heavens opened , and the Spirit like a dove descending upon him : 1 : 11 And there came a voice from heaven , saying , Thou art my beloved Son , in whom I am well pleased .
6 : 41 And when he had taken the five loaves and the two fishes , he looked up to heaven , and blessed , and brake the loaves , and gave them to his disciples to set before them ; and the two fishes divided he among them all .
7 : 33 And he took him aside from the multitude , and put his fingers into his ears , and he spit , and touched his tongue ; 7 : 34 And looking up to heaven , he sighed , and saith unto him , Ephphatha , that is , Be opened .
8 : 11 And the Pharisees came forth , and began to question with him , seeking of him a sign from heaven , tempting him .
10 : 21 Then Jesus beholding him loved him , and said unto him , One thing thou lackest : go thy way , sell whatsoever thou hast , and give to the poor , and thou shalt have treasure in heaven : and come , take up the cross , and follow me .
11 : 25 And when ye stand praying , forgive , if ye have ought against any : that your Father also which is in heaven may forgive you your trespasses .
11 : 26 But if ye do not forgive , neither will your Father which is in heaven forgive your trespasses .
11 : 30 The baptism of John , was it from heaven , or of men ?
11 : 31 And they reasoned with themselves , saying , If we shall say , From heaven ; he will say , Why then did ye not believe him ?
12 : 25 For when they shall rise from the dead , they neither marry , nor are given in marriage ; but are as the angels which are in heaven .
13 : 24 But in those days , after that tribulation , the sun shall be darkened , and the moon shall not give her light , 13 : 25 And the stars of heaven shall fall , and the powers that are in heaven shall be shaken .
13 : 27 And then shall he send his angels , and shall gather together his elect from the four winds , from the uttermost part of the earth to the uttermost part of heaven .
13 : 31 Heaven and earth shall pass away : but my words shall not pass away .
13 : 32 But of that day and that hour knoweth no man , no , not the angels which are in heaven , neither the Son , but the Father .
14 : 62 And Jesus said , I am : and ye shall see the Son of man sitting on the right hand of power , and coming in the clouds of heaven .
16 : 19 So then after the Lord had spoken unto them , he was received up into heaven , and sat on the right hand of God .
2 : 15 And it came to pass , as the angels were gone away from them into heaven , the shepherds said one to another , Let us now go even unto Bethlehem , and see this thing which is come to pass , which the Lord hath made known unto us .
3 : 21 Now when all the people were baptized , it came to pass , that Jesus also being baptized , and praying , the heaven was opened , 3 : 22 And the Holy Ghost descended in a bodily shape like a dove upon him , and a voice came from heaven , which said , Thou art my beloved Son ; in thee I am well pleased .
4 : 25 But I tell you of a truth , many widows were in Israel in the days of Elias , when the heaven was shut up three years and six months , when great famine was throughout all the land ; 4 : 26 But unto none of them was Elias sent , save unto Sarepta , a city of Sidon , unto a woman that was a widow .
6 : 23 Rejoice ye in that day , and leap for joy : for , behold , your reward is great in heaven : for in the like manner did their fathers unto the prophets .
9 : 16 Then he took the five loaves and the two fishes , and looking up to heaven , he blessed them , and brake , and gave to the disciples to set before the multitude .
9 : 54 And when his disciples James and John saw this , they said , Lord , wilt thou that we command fire to come down from heaven , and consume them , even as Elias did ?
10 : 15 And thou , Capernaum , which art exalted to heaven , shalt be thrust down to hell .
10 : 18 And he said unto them , I beheld Satan as lightning fall from heaven .
10 : 20 Notwithstanding in this rejoice not , that the spirits are subject unto you ; but rather rejoice , because your names are written in heaven .
10 : 21 In that hour Jesus rejoiced in spirit , and said , I thank thee , O Father , Lord of heaven and earth , that thou hast hid these things from the wise and prudent , and hast revealed them unto babes : even so , Father ; for so it seemed good in thy sight .
11 : 2 And he said unto them , When ye pray , say , Our Father which art in heaven , Hallowed be thy name .
Thy will be done , as in heaven , so in earth .
11 : 16 And others , tempting him , sought of him a sign from heaven .
15 : 7 I say unto you , that likewise joy shall be in heaven over one sinner that repenteth , more than over ninety and nine just persons , which need no repentance .
15 : 18 I will arise and go to my father , and will say unto him , Father , I have sinned against heaven , and before thee , 15 : 19 And am no more worthy to be called thy son : make me as one of thy hired servants .
15 : 21 And the son said unto him , Father , I have sinned against heaven , and in thy sight , and am no more worthy to be called thy son .
16 : 17 And it is easier for heaven and earth to pass , than one tittle of the law to fail .
17 : 24 For as the lightning , that lighteneth out of the one part under heaven , shineth unto the other part under heaven ; so shall also the Son of man be in his day .
17 : 28 Likewise also as it was in the days of Lot ; they did eat , they drank , they bought , they sold , they planted , they builded ; 17 : 29 But the same day that Lot went out of Sodom it rained fire and brimstone from heaven , and destroyed them all .
18 : 13 And the publican , standing afar off , would not lift up so much as his eyes unto heaven , but smote upon his breast , saying , God be merciful to me a sinner .
18 : 22 Now when Jesus heard these things , he said unto him , Yet lackest thou one thing : sell all that thou hast , and distribute unto the poor , and thou shalt have treasure in heaven : and come , follow me .
19 : 37 And when he was come nigh , even now at the descent of the mount of Olives , the whole multitude of the disciples began to rejoice and praise God with a loud voice for all the mighty works that they had seen ; 19 : 38 Saying , Blessed be the King that cometh in the name of the Lord : peace in heaven , and glory in the highest .
20 : 3 And he answered and said unto them , I will also ask you one thing ; and answer me : 20 : 4 The baptism of John , was it from heaven , or of men ?
20 : 5 And they reasoned with themselves , saying , If we shall say , From heaven ; he will say , Why then believed ye him not ?
21 : 10 Then said he unto them , Nation shall rise against nation , and kingdom against kingdom : 21 : 11 And great earthquakes shall be in divers places , and famines , and pestilences ; and fearful sights and great signs shall there be from heaven .
21 : 25 And there shall be signs in the sun , and in the moon , and in the stars ; and upon the earth distress of nations , with perplexity ; the sea and the waves roaring ; 21 : 26 Men ' s hearts failing them for fear , and for looking after those things which are coming on the earth : for the powers of heaven shall be shaken .
21 : 33 Heaven and earth shall pass away : but my words shall not pass away .
22 : 43 And there appeared an angel unto him from heaven , strengthening him .
24 : 51 And it came to pass , while he blessed them , he was parted from them , and carried up into heaven .
1 : 32 And John bare record , saying , I saw the Spirit descending from heaven like a dove , and it abode upon him .
1 : 51 And he saith unto him , Verily , verily , I say unto you , Hereafter ye shall see heaven open , and the angels of God ascending and descending upon the Son of man .
3 : 13 And no man hath ascended up to heaven , but he that came down from heaven , even the Son of man which is in heaven .
3 : 27 John answered and said , A man can receive nothing , except it be given him from heaven .
3 : 31 He that cometh from above is above all : he that is of the earth is earthly , and speaketh of the earth : he that cometh from heaven is above all .
6 : 31 Our fathers did eat manna in the desert ; as it is written , He gave them bread from heaven to eat .
6 : 32 Then Jesus said unto them , Verily , verily , I say unto you , Moses gave you not that bread from heaven ; but my Father giveth you the true bread from heaven .
6 : 33 For the bread of God is he which cometh down from heaven , and giveth life unto the world .
6 : 38 For I came down from heaven , not to do mine own will , but the will of him that sent me .
6 : 41 The Jews then murmured at him , because he said , I am the bread which came down from heaven .
how is it then that he saith , I came down from heaven ?
6 : 50 This is the bread which cometh down from heaven , that a man may eat thereof , and not die .
6 : 51 I am the living bread which came down from heaven : if any man eat of this bread , he shall live for ever : and the bread that I will give is my flesh , which I will give for the life of the world .
6 : 58 This is that bread which came down from heaven : not as your fathers did eat manna , and are dead : he that eateth of this bread shall live for ever .
Then came there a voice from heaven , saying , I have both glorified it , and will glorify it again .
17 : 1 These words spake Jesus , and lifted up his eyes to heaven , and said , Father , the hour is come ; glorify thy Son , that thy Son also may glorify thee : 17 : 2 As thou hast given him power over all flesh , that he should give eternal life to as many as thou hast given him .
1 : 10 And while they looked stedfastly toward heaven as he went up , behold , two men stood by them in white apparel ; 1 : 11 Which also said , Ye men of Galilee , why stand ye gazing up into heaven ?
this same Jesus , which is taken up from you into heaven , shall so come in like manner as ye have seen him go into heaven .
2 : 2 And suddenly there came a sound from heaven as of a rushing mighty wind , and it filled all the house where they were sitting .
2 : 5 And there were dwelling at Jerusalem Jews , devout men , out of every nation under heaven .
2 : 16 But this is that which was spoken by the prophet Joel ; 2 : 17 And it shall come to pass in the last days , saith God , I will pour out of my Spirit upon all flesh : and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy , and your young men shall see visions , and your old men shall dream dreams : 2 : 18 And on my servants and on my handmaidens I will pour out in those days of my Spirit ; and they shall prophesy : 2 : 19 And I will shew wonders in heaven above , and signs in the earth beneath ; blood , and fire , and vapour of smoke : 2 : 20 The sun shall be turned into darkness , and the moon into blood , before the great and notable day of the Lord come : 2 : 21 And it shall come to pass , that whosoever shall call on the name of the Lord shall be saved .
3 : 20 And he shall send Jesus Christ , which before was preached unto you : 3 : 21 Whom the heaven must receive until the times of restitution of all things , which God hath spoken by the mouth of all his holy prophets since the world began .
4 : 12 Neither is there salvation in any other : for there is none other name under heaven given among men , whereby we must be saved .
4 : 24 And when they heard that , they lifted up their voice to God with one accord , and said , Lord , thou art God , which hast made heaven , and earth , and the sea , and all that in them is : 4 : 25 Who by the mouth of thy servant David hast said , Why did the heathen rage , and the people imagine vain things ?
7 : 42 Then God turned , and gave them up to worship the host of heaven ; as it is written in the book of the prophets , O ye house of Israel , have ye offered to me slain beasts and sacrifices by the space of forty years in the wilderness ?
7 : 48 Howbeit the most High dwelleth not in temples made with hands ; as saith the prophet , 7 : 49 Heaven is my throne , and earth is my footstool : what house will ye build me ?
7 : 55 But he , being full of the Holy Ghost , looked up stedfastly into heaven , and saw the glory of God , and Jesus standing on the right hand of God , 7 : 56 And said , Behold , I see the heavens opened , and the Son of man standing on the right hand of God .
9 : 3 And as he journeyed , he came near Damascus : and suddenly there shined round about him a light from heaven : 9 : 4 And he fell to the earth , and heard a voice saying unto him , Saul , Saul , why persecutest thou me ?
10 : 9 On the morrow , as they went on their journey , and drew nigh unto the city , Peter went up upon the housetop to pray about the sixth hour : 10 : 10 And he became very hungry , and would have eaten : but while they made ready , he fell into a trance , 10 : 11 And saw heaven opened , and a certain vessel descending upon him , as it had been a great sheet knit at the four corners , and let down to the earth : 10 : 12 Wherein were all manner of fourfooted beasts of the earth , and wild beasts , and creeping things , and fowls of the air .
10 : 16 This was done thrice : and the vessel was received up again into heaven .
11 : 4 But Peter rehearsed the matter from the beginning , and expounded it by order unto them , saying , 11 : 5 I was in the city of Joppa praying : and in a trance I saw a vision , A certain vessel descend , as it had been a great sheet , let down from heaven by four corners ; and it came even to me : 11 : 6 Upon the which when I had fastened mine eyes , I considered , and saw fourfooted beasts of the earth , and wild beasts , and creeping things , and fowls of the air .
11 : 9 But the voice answered me again from heaven , What God hath cleansed , that call not thou common .
11 : 10 And this was done three times : and all were drawn up again into heaven .
We also are men of like passions with you , and preach unto you that ye should turn from these vanities unto the living God , which made heaven , and earth , and the sea , and all things that are therein : 14 : 16 Who in times past suffered all nations to walk in their own ways .
14 : 17 Nevertheless he left not himself without witness , in that he did good , and gave us rain from heaven , and fruitful seasons , filling our hearts with food and gladness .
17 : 24 God that made the world and all things therein , seeing that he is Lord of heaven and earth , dwelleth not in temples made with hands ; 17 : 25 Neither is worshipped with men ' s hands , as though he needed any thing , seeing he giveth to all life , and breath , and all things ; 17 : 26 And hath made of one blood all nations of men for to dwell on all the face of the earth , and hath determined the times before appointed , and the bounds of their habitation ; 17 : 27 That they should seek the Lord , if haply they might feel after him , and find him , though he be not far from every one of us : 17 : 28 For in him we live , and move , and have our being ; as certain also of your own poets have said , For we are also his offspring .
22 : 6 And it came to pass , that , as I made my journey , and was come nigh unto Damascus about noon , suddenly there shone from heaven a great light round about me .
26 : 12 Whereupon as I went to Damascus with authority and commission from the chief priests , 26 : 13 At midday , O king , I saw in the way a light from heaven , above the brightness of the sun , shining round about me and them which journeyed with me .
1 : 18 For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men , who hold the truth in unrighteousness ; 1 : 19 Because that which may be known of God is manifest in them ; for God hath shewed it unto them .
10 : 6 But the righteousness which is of faith speaketh on this wise , Say not in thine heart , Who shall ascend into heaven ?
8 : 5 For though there be that are called gods , whether in heaven or in earth , ( as there be gods many , and lords many ,) 8 : 6 But to us there is but one God , the Father , of whom are all things , and we in him ; and one Lord Jesus Christ , by whom are all things , and we by him .
15 : 47 The first man is of the earth , earthy ; the second man is the Lord from heaven .
5 : 2 For in this we groan , earnestly desiring to be clothed upon with our house which is from heaven : 5 : 3 If so be that being clothed we shall not be found naked .
12 : 2 I knew a man in Christ above fourteen years ago , ( whether in the body , I cannot tell ; or whether out of the body , I cannot tell : God knoweth ;) such an one caught up to the third heaven .
1 : 8 But though we , or an angel from heaven , preach any other gospel unto you than that which we have preached unto you , let him be accursed .
1 : 7 In whom we have redemption through his blood , the forgiveness of sins , according to the riches of his grace ; 1 : 8 Wherein he hath abounded toward us in all wisdom and prudence ; 1 : 9 Having made known unto us the mystery of his will , according to his good pleasure which he hath purposed in himself : 1 : 10 That in the dispensation of the fulness of times he might gather together in one all things in Christ , both which are in heaven , and which are on earth ; even in him : 1 : 11 In whom also we have obtained an inheritance , being predestinated according to the purpose of him who worketh all things after the counsel of his own will : 1 : 12 That we should be to the praise of his glory , who first trusted in Christ .
3 : 14 For this cause I bow my knees unto the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ , 3 : 15 Of whom the whole family in heaven and earth is named , 3 : 16 That he would grant you , according to the riches of his glory , to be strengthened with might by his Spirit in the inner man ; 3 : 17 That Christ may dwell in your hearts by faith ; that ye , being rooted and grounded in love , 3 : 18 May be able to comprehend with all saints what is the breadth , and length , and depth , and height ; 3 : 19 And to know the love of Christ , which passeth knowledge , that ye might be filled with all the fulness of God .
6 : 9 And , ye masters , do the same things unto them , forbearing threatening : knowing that your Master also is in heaven ; neither is there respect of persons with him .
2 : 9 Wherefore God also hath highly exalted him , and given him a name which is above every name : 2 : 10 That at the name of Jesus every knee should bow , of things in heaven , and things in earth , and things under the earth ; 2 : 11 And that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord , to the glory of God the Father .
3 : 20 For our conversation is in heaven ; from whence also we look for the Saviour , the Lord Jesus Christ : 3 : 21 Who shall change our vile body , that it may be fashioned like unto his glorious body , according to the working whereby he is able even to subdue all things unto himself .
1 : 3 We give thanks to God and the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ , praying always for you , 1 : 4 Since we heard of your faith in Christ Jesus , and of the love which ye have to all the saints , 1 : 5 For the hope which is laid up for you in heaven , whereof ye heard before in the word of the truth of the gospel ; 1 : 6 Which is come unto you , as it is in all the world ; and bringeth forth fruit , as it doth also in you , since the day ye heard of it , and knew the grace of God in truth : 1 : 7 As ye also learned of Epaphras our dear fellowservant , who is for you a faithful minister of Christ ; 1 : 8 Who also declared unto us your love in the Spirit .
1 : 9 For this cause we also , since the day we heard it , do not cease to pray for you , and to desire that ye might be filled with the knowledge of his will in all wisdom and spiritual understanding ; 1 : 10 That ye might walk worthy of the Lord unto all pleasing , being fruitful in every good work , and increasing in the knowledge of God ; 1 : 11 Strengthened with all might , according to his glorious power , unto all patience and longsuffering with joyfulness ; 1 : 12 Giving thanks unto the Father , which hath made us meet to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints in light : 1 : 13 Who hath delivered us from the power of darkness , and hath translated us into the kingdom of his dear Son : 1 : 14 In whom we have redemption through his blood , even the forgiveness of sins : 1 : 15 Who is the image of the invisible God , the firstborn of every creature : 1 : 16 For by him were all things created , that are in heaven , and that are in earth , visible and invisible , whether they be thrones , or dominions , or principalities , or powers : all things were created by him , and for him : 1 : 17 And he is before all things , and by him all things consist .
1 : 19 For it pleased the Father that in him should all fulness dwell ; 1 : 20 And , having made peace through the blood of his cross , by him to reconcile all things unto himself ; by him , I say , whether they be things in earth , or things in heaven .
1 : 21 And you , that were sometime alienated and enemies in your mind by wicked works , yet now hath he reconciled 1 : 22 In the body of his flesh through death , to present you holy and unblameable and unreproveable in his sight : 1 : 23 If ye continue in the faith grounded and settled , and be not moved away from the hope of the gospel , which ye have heard , and which was preached to every creature which is under heaven ; whereof I Paul am made a minister ; 1 : 24 Who now rejoice in my sufferings for you , and fill up that which is behind of the afflictions of Christ in my flesh for his body ' s sake , which is the church : 1 : 25 Whereof I am made a minister , according to the dispensation of God which is given to me for you , to fulfil the word of God ; 1 : 26 Even the mystery which hath been hid from ages and from generations , but now is made manifest to his saints : 1 : 27 To whom God would make known what is the riches of the glory of this mystery among the Gentiles ; which is Christ in you , the hope of glory : 1 : 28 Whom we preach , warning every man , and teaching every man in all wisdom ; that we may present every man perfect in Christ Jesus : 1 : 29 Whereunto I also labour , striving according to his working , which worketh in me mightily .
4 : 1 Masters , give unto your servants that which is just and equal ; knowing that ye also have a Master in heaven .
1 : 9 For they themselves shew of us what manner of entering in we had unto you , and how ye turned to God from idols to serve the living and true God ; 1 : 10 And to wait for his Son from heaven , whom he raised from the dead , even Jesus , which delivered us from the wrath to come .
4 : 16 For the Lord himself shall descend from heaven with a shout , with the voice of the archangel , and with the trump of God : and the dead in Christ shall rise first : 4 : 17 Then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds , to meet the Lord in the air : and so shall we ever be with the Lord .
1 : 3 We are bound to thank God always for you , brethren , as it is meet , because that your faith groweth exceedingly , and the charity of every one of you all toward each other aboundeth ; 1 : 4 So that we ourselves glory in you in the churches of God for your patience and faith in all your persecutions and tribulations that ye endure : 1 : 5 Which is a manifest token of the righteous judgment of God , that ye may be counted worthy of the kingdom of God , for which ye also suffer : 1 : 6 Seeing it is a righteous thing with God to recompense tribulation to them that trouble you ; 1 : 7 And to you who are troubled rest with us , when the Lord Jesus shall be revealed from heaven with his mighty angels , 1 : 8 In flaming fire taking vengeance on them that know not God , and that obey not the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ : 1 : 9 Who shall be punished with everlasting destruction from the presence of the Lord , and from the glory of his power ; 1 : 10 When he shall come to be glorified in his saints , and to be admired in all them that believe ( because our testimony among you was believed ) in that day .
9 : 24 For Christ is not entered into the holy places made with hands , which are the figures of the true ; but into heaven itself , now to appear in the presence of God for us : 9 : 25 Nor yet that he should offer himself often , as the high priest entereth into the holy place every year with blood of others ; 9 : 26 For then must he often have suffered since the foundation of the world : but now once in the end of the world hath he appeared to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself .
10 : 34 For ye had compassion of me in my bonds , and took joyfully the spoiling of your goods , knowing in yourselves that ye have in heaven a better and an enduring substance .
12 : 18 For ye are not come unto the mount that might be touched , and that burned with fire , nor unto blackness , and darkness , and tempest , 12 : 19 And the sound of a trumpet , and the voice of words ; which voice they that heard intreated that the word should not be spoken to them any more : 12 : 20 ( For they could not endure that which was commanded , And if so much as a beast touch the mountain , it shall be stoned , or thrust through with a dart : 12 : 21 And so terrible was the sight , that Moses said , I exceedingly fear and quake :) 12 : 22 But ye are come unto mount Sion , and unto the city of the living God , the heavenly Jerusalem , and to an innumerable company of angels , 12 : 23 To the general assembly and church of the firstborn , which are written in heaven , and to God the Judge of all , and to the spirits of just men made perfect , 12 : 24 And to Jesus the mediator of the new covenant , and to the blood of sprinkling , that speaketh better things than that of Abel .
For if they escaped not who refused him that spake on earth , much more shall not we escape , if we turn away from him that speaketh from heaven : 12 : 26 Whose voice then shook the earth : but now he hath promised , saying , Yet once more I shake not the earth only , but also heaven .
5 : 12 But above all things , my brethren , swear not , neither by heaven , neither by the earth , neither by any other oath : but let your yea be yea ; and your nay , nay ; lest ye fall into condemnation .
5 : 18 And he prayed again , and the heaven gave rain , and the earth brought forth her fruit .
1 : 3 Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ , which according to his abundant mercy hath begotten us again unto a lively hope by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead , 1 : 4 To an inheritance incorruptible , and undefiled , and that fadeth not away , reserved in heaven for you , 1 : 5 Who are kept by the power of God through faith unto salvation ready to be revealed in the last time .
1 : 12 Unto whom it was revealed , that not unto themselves , but unto us they did minister the things , which are now reported unto you by them that have preached the gospel unto you with the Holy Ghost sent down from heaven ; which things the angels desire to look into .
3 : 21 The like figure whereunto even baptism doth also now save us ( not the putting away of the filth of the flesh , but the answer of a good conscience toward God ,) by the resurrection of Jesus Christ : 3 : 22 Who is gone into heaven , and is on the right hand of God ; angels and authorities and powers being made subject unto him .
1 : 18 And this voice which came from heaven we heard , when we were with him in the holy mount .
5 : 7 For there are three that bear record in heaven , the Father , the Word , and the Holy Ghost : and these three are one .
3 : 12 Him that overcometh will I make a pillar in the temple of my God , and he shall go no more out : and I will write upon him the name of my God , and the name of the city of my God , which is new Jerusalem , which cometh down out of heaven from my God : and I will write upon him my new name .
4 : 1 After this I looked , and , behold , a door was opened in heaven : and the first voice which I heard was as it were of a trumpet talking with me ; which said , Come up hither , and I will shew thee things which must be hereafter .
4 : 2 And immediately I was in the spirit : and , behold , a throne was set in heaven , and one sat on the throne .
5 : 3 And no man in heaven , nor in earth , neither under the earth , was able to open the book , neither to look thereon .
5 : 13 And every creature which is in heaven , and on the earth , and under the earth , and such as are in the sea , and all that are in them , heard I saying , Blessing , and honour , and glory , and power , be unto him that sitteth upon the throne , and unto the Lamb for ever and ever .
6 : 12 And I beheld when he had opened the sixth seal , and , lo , there was a great earthquake ; and the sun became black as sackcloth of hair , and the moon became as blood ; 6 : 13 And the stars of heaven fell unto the earth , even as a fig tree casteth her untimely figs , when she is shaken of a mighty wind .
6 : 14 And the heaven departed as a scroll when it is rolled together ; and every mountain and island were moved out of their places .
8 : 1 And when he had opened the seventh seal , there was silence in heaven about the space of half an hour .
8 : 10 And the third angel sounded , and there fell a great star from heaven , burning as it were a lamp , and it fell upon the third part of the rivers , and upon the fountains of waters ; 8 : 11 And the name of the star is called Wormwood : and the third part of the waters became wormwood ; and many men died of the waters , because they were made bitter .
8 : 13 And I beheld , and heard an angel flying through the midst of heaven , saying with a loud voice , Woe , woe , woe , to the inhabiters of the earth by reason of the other voices of the trumpet of the three angels , which are yet to sound !
9 : 1 And the fifth angel sounded , and I saw a star fall from heaven unto the earth : and to him was given the key of the bottomless pit .
10 : 1 And I saw another mighty angel come down from heaven , clothed with a cloud : and a rainbow was upon his head , and his face was as it were the sun , and his feet as pillars of fire : 10 : 2 And he had in his hand a little book open : and he set his right foot upon the sea , and his left foot on the earth , 10 : 3 And cried with a loud voice , as when a lion roareth : and when he had cried , seven thunders uttered their voices .
10 : 4 And when the seven thunders had uttered their voices , I was about to write : and I heard a voice from heaven saying unto me , Seal up those things which the seven thunders uttered , and write them not .
10 : 5 And the angel which I saw stand upon the sea and upon the earth lifted up his hand to heaven , 10 : 6 And sware by him that liveth for ever and ever , who created heaven , and the things that therein are , and the earth , and the things that therein are , and the sea , and the things which are therein , that there should be time no longer : 10 : 7 But in the days of the voice of the seventh angel , when he shall begin to sound , the mystery of God should be finished , as he hath declared to his servants the prophets .
10 : 8 And the voice which I heard from heaven spake unto me again , and said , Go and take the little book which is open in the hand of the angel which standeth upon the sea and upon the earth .
11 : 6 These have power to shut heaven , that it rain not in the days of their prophecy : and have power over waters to turn them to blood , and to smite the earth with all plagues , as often as they will .
11 : 12 And they heard a great voice from heaven saying unto them , Come up hither .
And they ascended up to heaven in a cloud ; and their enemies beheld them .
11 : 13 And the same hour was there a great earthquake , and the tenth part of the city fell , and in the earthquake were slain of men seven thousand : and the remnant were affrighted , and gave glory to the God of heaven .
11 : 15 And the seventh angel sounded ; and there were great voices in heaven , saying , The kingdoms of this world are become the kingdoms of our Lord , and of his Christ ; and he shall reign for ever and ever .
11 : 19 And the temple of God was opened in heaven , and there was seen in his temple the ark of his testament : and there were lightnings , and voices , and thunderings , and an earthquake , and great hail .
12 : 1 And there appeared a great wonder in heaven ; a woman clothed with the sun , and the moon under her feet , and upon her head a crown of twelve stars : 12 : 2 And she being with child cried , travailing in birth , and pained to be delivered .
12 : 3 And there appeared another wonder in heaven ; and behold a great red dragon , having seven heads and ten horns , and seven crowns upon his heads .
12 : 4 And his tail drew the third part of the stars of heaven , and did cast them to the earth : and the dragon stood before the woman which was ready to be delivered , for to devour her child as soon as it was born .
12 : 7 And there was war in heaven : Michael and his angels fought against the dragon ; and the dragon fought and his angels , 12 : 8 And prevailed not ; neither was their place found any more in heaven .
12 : 10 And I heard a loud voice saying in heaven , Now is come salvation , and strength , and the kingdom of our God , and the power of his Christ : for the accuser of our brethren is cast down , which accused them before our God day and night .
13 : 6 And he opened his mouth in blasphemy against God , to blaspheme his name , and his tabernacle , and them that dwell in heaven .
13 : 13 And he doeth great wonders , so that he maketh fire come down from heaven on the earth in the sight of men , 13 : 14 And deceiveth them that dwell on the earth by the means of those miracles which he had power to do in the sight of the beast ; saying to them that dwell on the earth , that they should make an image to the beast , which had the wound by a sword , and did live .
14 : 2 And I heard a voice from heaven , as the voice of many waters , and as the voice of a great thunder : and I heard the voice of harpers harping with their harps : 14 : 3 And they sung as it were a new song before the throne , and before the four beasts , and the elders : and no man could learn that song but the hundred and forty and four thousand , which were redeemed from the earth .
14 : 6 And I saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven , having the everlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth , and to every nation , and kindred , and tongue , and people , 14 : 7 Saying with a loud voice , Fear God , and give glory to him ; for the hour of his judgment is come : and worship him that made heaven , and earth , and the sea , and the fountains of waters .
14 : 13 And I heard a voice from heaven saying unto me , Write , Blessed are the dead which die in the Lord from henceforth : Yea , saith the Spirit , that they may rest from their labours ; and their works do follow them .
14 : 17 And another angel came out of the temple which is in heaven , he also having a sharp sickle .
15 : 1 And I saw another sign in heaven , great and marvellous , seven angels having the seven last plagues ; for in them is filled up the wrath of God .
15 : 5 And after that I looked , and , behold , the temple of the tabernacle of the testimony in heaven was opened : 15 : 6 And the seven angels came out of the temple , having the seven plagues , clothed in pure and white linen , and having their breasts girded with golden girdles .
16 : 10 And the fifth angel poured out his vial upon the seat of the beast ; and his kingdom was full of darkness ; and they gnawed their tongues for pain , 16 : 11 And blasphemed the God of heaven because of their pains and their sores , and repented not of their deeds .
16 : 17 And the seventh angel poured out his vial into the air ; and there came a great voice out of the temple of heaven , from the throne , saying , It is done .
16 : 21 And there fell upon men a great hail out of heaven , every stone about the weight of a talent : and men blasphemed God because of the plague of the hail ; for the plague thereof was exceeding great .
18 : 1 And after these things I saw another angel come down from heaven , having great power ; and the earth was lightened with his glory .
18 : 4 And I heard another voice from heaven , saying , Come out of her , my people , that ye be not partakers of her sins , and that ye receive not of her plagues .
18 : 5 For her sins have reached unto heaven , and God hath remembered her iniquities .
18 : 20 Rejoice over her , thou heaven , and ye holy apostles and prophets ; for God hath avenged you on her .
19 : 1 And after these things I heard a great voice of much people in heaven , saying , Alleluia ; Salvation , and glory , and honour , and power , unto the Lord our God : 19 : 2 For true and righteous are his judgments : for he hath judged the great whore , which did corrupt the earth with her fornication , and hath avenged the blood of his servants at her hand .
19 : 11 And I saw heaven opened , and behold a white horse ; and he that sat upon him was called Faithful and True , and in righteousness he doth judge and make war .
19 : 14 And the armies which were in heaven followed him upon white horses , clothed in fine linen , white and clean .
19 : 17 And I saw an angel standing in the sun ; and he cried with a loud voice , saying to all the fowls that fly in the midst of heaven , Come and gather yourselves together unto the supper of the great God ; 19 : 18 That ye may eat the flesh of kings , and the flesh of captains , and the flesh of mighty men , and the flesh of horses , and of them that sit on them , and the flesh of all men , both free and bond , both small and great .
20 : 1 And I saw an angel come down from heaven , having the key of the bottomless pit and a great chain in his hand .
20 : 9 And they went up on the breadth of the earth , and compassed the camp of the saints about , and the beloved city : and fire came down from God out of heaven , and devoured them .
20 : 11 And I saw a great white throne , and him that sat on it , from whose face the earth and the heaven fled away ; and there was found no place for them .
21 : 1 And I saw a new heaven and a new earth : for the first heaven and the first earth were passed away ; and there was no more sea .
21 : 2 And I John saw the holy city , new Jerusalem , coming down from God out of heaven , prepared as a bride adorned for her husband .
21 : 3 And I heard a great voice out of heaven saying , Behold , the tabernacle of God is with men , and he will dwell with them , and they shall be his people , and God himself shall be with them , and be their God .
21 : 10 And he carried me away in the spirit to a great and high mountain , and shewed me that great city , the holy Jerusalem , descending out of heaven from God , 21 : 11 Having the glory of God : and her light was like unto a stone most precious , even like a jasper stone , clear as crystal ; 21 : 12 And had a wall great and high , and had twelve gates , and at the gates twelve angels , and names written thereon , which are the names of the twelve tribes of the children of Israel : 21 : 13 On the east three gates ; on the north three gates ; on the south three gates ; and on the west three gates .
Smiles on thee , on me , on all , Who became an infant small ; Infant smiles are his own smiles ; Heaven and earth to peace beguiles .
Now like a mighty wild they raise to heaven the voice of song , Or like harmonious thunderings the seats of heaven among : Beneath them sit the aged man , wise guardians of the poor .
The moon , like a flower In heaven ' s high bower , With silent delight , Sits and smiles on the night .
" Love seeketh not itself to please , Nor for itself hath any care , But for another gives it ease , And builds a heaven in hell ' s despair ."
" Love seeketh only Self to please , To bind another to its delight , Joys in another ' s loss of ease , And builds a hell in heaven ' s despite ."
" And because I am happy and dance and sing , They think they have done me no injury , And are gone to praise God and his priest and king , Who make up a heaven of our misery ."
When the stars threw down their spears , And watered heaven with their tears , Did he smile his work to see ?
Tired with kisses sweet , They agree to meet When the silent sleep Waves o ' er heaven ' s deep , And the weary tired wanderers weep .
The Lilly of the valley breathing in the humble grass Answerd the lovely maid and said : I am a watry weed , And I am very small and love to dwell in lowly vales : So weak the gilded butterfly scarce perches on my head Yet I am visited from heaven and he that smiles on all Walks in the valley , and each morn over me spreads his hand Saying , rejoice thou humble grass , thou new - born lily flower .
Over the whole country - side , as far as the rain fell , a lovely rainbow sprang its arch , and all the brightest rays of heaven made its colours ; it was the last greeting of a love so great that it sacrificed itself .
There is no power on earth or in heaven which can put me down from my seat !"
There was just one thing he cared about : it was to make his soul so pure and perfect that it could be one of the stones in God ' s great Temple of Heaven .
Now , heaven is the hopeless thing , more hopeless than any hell .
The fiery crypts , the lurid cellars of the underworld , to which you once condemned the wicked , are hideous enough , but at least they are more homely than the heaven in which we ride .
Or it was like some cyclopean sea - beast sitting above London and letting down its tentacles bewilderingly on every side , a monstrosity in that starless heaven .
This beautiful man evidently felt as Michael did that the earth was a star and was set in heaven .
He had stepped as it were into another infinity , out under the dome of another heaven .
But this was a dome of heaven made by man .
Heaven seemed to humble itself and come closer to the earth .
The common paths of his little village began to climb quite suddenly and seemed resolved to go to heaven .
" For Heaven ' s sake , man ," he said , " don ' t talk so much .
" Whatever in earth or heaven it is that has joined us two together , it seems to be something which makes it impossible to lie .
Today his will is done on earth as it is in heaven .
" Good Lord in heaven !"
" Good Lord in heaven !"
Come outside and ascend into heaven !"
" It has been very well put by one of the brightest of your young authors , who said : ' Unless you become as little children ye shall in no wise enter the kingdom of heaven .'
I will engage on my side , like Elijah , to accept a test from heaven .
He had prayed that some sign might come from heaven ; and after an almost savage scrutiny he came to the conclusion that his one did .
Then he also tumbled his long legs into the tonneau , having that sense of degradedly diving into heaven which so many have known in so many human houses when they consented to stop to tea or were allowed to stop to supper .
Heaven had not merely sent him a message ; Heaven itself had opened around him and given him an hour of its own ancient and star - shattering energy .
But still MacIan stood up staring at earth and heaven ; and still the door he had flung open flapped loose like a flag .
She has left her good name and her good sleep and all her habits and dignity flung away on the other side of England in the hope that she may hear of us and that we have broken some hole into heaven ."
Evan said suddenly : " Will they let me see her in heaven once in a thousand ages ?"
" The hand of Heaven is still pointing ," muttered the man of superstition to himself .
Other birds were shaken up in great clouds from the tree - tops , as if they were blossoms detached and scattered up to heaven .
Then he turned and looked back and saw heavy foam being shaken up to heaven about the base of Cragness Point .
He had been at a loss to understand the almost ironical magnificence of all those teeming creatures and tropical colours and smells that smoked happily to heaven .
France , where a man said only the other day those splendid unanswerable words "-- with a superb gesture --"' we have extinguished in heaven those lights that men shall never light again .'"
Before the duellists had exchanged half a dozen passes , the big , blue policeman appeared once more on the top of the hill , a palpable monstrosity in the eye of heaven .
But higher yet behind them , and readier to catch the first coming of the sun , ran the rampart of the top of the wall , which in their excitement of escape looked at once indispensable and unattainable , like the wall of heaven .
" In our armies up in heaven we learn to put a wholesome fear into subordinates ."
There was a sense in earth and heaven as of everything breaking up , and all the revolutionist in Turnbull rejoiced that it was breaking up .
The last red anger of the sunset was ended ; the dome of heaven was dark ; the lanes of flaring light in the streets below hardly lit up the base of the building .
After six still seconds Turnbull could stand it no longer , but called out to the dwarfish thing -- in what words heaven knows .
They did not even know what hour of the day it was ; and when , turning a corner , they saw the bare tunnel of the corridor end abruptly in a shining square of garden , the grass burning in that strong evening sunshine which makes it burnished gold rather than green , the abrupt opening on to the earth seemed like a hole knocked in the wall of heaven .
" I know enough about myself ," he said , " to allow for any mood , though it opened heaven or hell .
No one who saw his slouching stride and sunken head could have known that his soul was in the seventh heaven of ecstasy .
" No , by Heaven !
" Heaven deliver us !"
He gazed painfully at the girl , at that moment being raised out of the flowers by Muscari , who was saying : " We have fallen into heaven ; it is a sign .
" Then go over there and offer yourself ," said the priest : " offer her everything you can ; offer her heaven and earth if you ' ve got them .
And turning again to face the ship , and holding up both arms to Heaven -- like a prophet calling plagues upon a wicked city -- he called out to Pendragon in a piercing and terrible voice , that he at least was yet living , that he would go on living , that he would live for ever ; and that generation after generation the house of Pendragon should never see him or his , but should know by very certain signs that he and his vengeance were alive .
A bird sailed in heaven over it .
That white face flung up to heaven , clean - shaven and so unnaturally young , like Byron with a Roman nose , those black curls already grizzled -- he had seen the thousand public portraits of Sir Claude Champion .
All the heaven seemed covered with a quite vivid and palpable plumage ; you could only say that the sky was full of feathers , and of feathers that almost brushed the face .
Yes , the poet will be discontented even in the streets of heaven .
Under the white fog of snow high up in the heaven the whole atmosphere of the city was turned to a very queer kind of green twilight , as of men under the sea .
The devils might have captured heaven , but they had not yet captured the cross .
If heaven were his throne and the earth his footstool , I swear that I would pull him down ."
For one moment the heaven of Syme again grew black with supernatural terrors .
Syme had the feeling he had more than once had in these adventures -- the sense that a horrible and sublime wave lifted to heaven was just toppling over .
For a second they all sat as still as equestrian statues , and for a second -- for two or three or four seconds -- heaven and earth seemed equally still .
But all his councillors , who had come to vote him down , crossed that Square as if they were watched out of heaven by a hundred eyes .
The wheel grew larger and larger , till it filled heaven like the wheel of stars .
If anyone in heaven has that face I shall know him again .
Almost as Syme heard the words , he saw on the sea of human faces in front of him a frightful and beautiful alteration , as if heaven had opened behind his head .
The sun in heaven denied it , the earth and sky denied it , all human wisdom denied it .
You are the seven angels of heaven , and you have had no troubles .
" May the blessing of heaven be with him !"
" Heaven forbid , sir ," said the attorney , sanctifying his face , " that I should suggest the taking an UNFAIR advantage of any man , rich or poor ; but to break a bad lease is not taking an unfair advantage ."
What she could find to like in the Talbots , heaven knows .
Go on , my good friend ; you see what it is to live in Old England , where , thank Heaven , the poorest of His Majesty ' s subjects may have justice , and speak his mind before the first in the land .
Thank heaven , I am not a mother !
Such a wife as she makes ," continued Mrs . Theresa , lifting up her hands and eyes to heaven , " and so much as she has gone through , the brute ought to be ashamed of himself if he does not leave her something extraordinary in his will ; for turn it which way she will , she can never keep a carriage , or live like anybody else , on her jointure , after all , she tells me , poor soul !
" In the name of heaven , who and what may you be ?
take care of the chimney sweeper , for heaven ' s sake ."
make haste , for Heaven ' s sake !"
There ," said Arthur , pointing to a thin figure of an Italian , who stood pale and trembling , and looking up to heaven as he crossed himself repeatedly .
" Bright shone the roofs , the domes , the spires , And rockets blew self driven , To hang their momentary fire Around the vault of heaven .
The urbane activity with which a man receives money is really marvellous , considering that we so earnestly believe money to be the root of all earthly ills , and that on no account can a monied man enter heaven .
The landlord was near spraining his wrist , and I told him for heaven ' s sake to quit -- the bed was soft enough to suit me , and I did not know how all the planing in the world could make eider down of a pine plank .
But beginning to feel very cold now , half undressed as I was , and remembering what the landlord said about the harpooneer ' s not coming home at all that night , it being so very late , I made no more ado , but jumped out of my pantaloons and boots , and then blowing out the light tumbled into bed , and commended myself to the care of heaven .
But thank heaven , at that moment the landlord came into the room light in hand , and leaping from the bed I ran up to him .
The sailors mark him ; more and more certain grow their suspicions of him , and at last , fully to test the truth , by referring the whole matter to high Heaven , they fall to casting lots , to see for whose cause this great tempest was upon them .
"' I am a Hebrew ,' he cries -- and then --' I fear the Lord the God of Heaven who hath made the sea and the dry land !'
Delight ,-- top - gallant delight is to him , who acknowledges no law or lord , but the Lord his God , and is only a patriot to heaven .
Do you suppose now , Ishmael , that the magnanimous God of heaven and earth -- pagans and all included -- can possibly be jealous of an insignificant bit of black wood ?
All our arguing with him would not avail ; let him be , I say : and Heaven have mercy on us all -- Presbyterians and Pagans alike -- for we are all somehow dreadfully cracked about the head , and sadly need mending .
" For heaven ' s sake , Queequeg , get up and shake yourself ; get up and have some supper .
Don ' t whale it too much a ' Lord ' s days , men ; but don ' t miss a fair chance either , that ' s rejecting Heaven ' s good gifts .
Glimpses do ye seem to see of that mortally intolerable truth ; that all deep , earnest thinking is but the intrepid effort of the soul to keep the open independence of her sea ; while the wildest winds of heaven and earth conspire to cast her on the treacherous , slavish shore ?
I call him thus , because he always swims in hilarious shoals , which upon the broad sea keep tossing themselves to heaven like caps in a Fourth - of - July crowd .
If you yourself can withstand three cheers at beholding these vivacious fish , then heaven help ye ; the spirit of godly gamesomeness is not in ye .
His heaven - insulting purpose , God may wedge aside .
There ' s naught so sweet on earth -- heaven may not match it !-- as those swift glances of warm , wild bosoms in the dance , when the over - arboring arms hide such ripe , bursting grapes .
Fine prospects to ' em ; they ' re on the road to heaven .
But I doubt not , that leathern tally , meant for man , was taken off in Heaven , when the white fowl flew to join the wing - folding , the invoking , and adoring cherubim !
Whence he came in a mannerly world like this , by what sort of unaccountable tie he soon evinced himself to be linked with Ahab ' s peculiar fortunes ; nay , so far as to have some sort of a half - hinted influence ; Heaven knows , but it might have been even authority over him ; all this none knew .
The strange , upheaving , lifting tendency of the taffrail breeze filling the hollows of so many sails , made the buoyant , hovering deck to feel like air beneath the feet ; while still she rushed along , as if two antagonistic influences were struggling in her -- one to mount direct to heaven , the other to drive yawingly to some horizontal goal .
For by a mysterious fatality , Heaven itself seemed to step in to take out of his hands into its own the damning thing he would have done .
"' So help me Heaven , and on my honour the story I have told ye , gentlemen , is in substance and its great items , true .
But , perhaps you expect to get into heaven by crawling through the lubber ' s hole , cook ; but , no , no , cook , you don ' t get there , except you go the regular way , round by the rigging .
But none of us are in heaven yet .
Thou saw ' st the locked lovers when leaping from their flaming ship ; heart to heart they sank beneath the exulting wave ; true to each other , when heaven seemed false to them .
He had been originally nurtured among the crazy society of Neskyeuna Shakers , where he had been a great prophet ; in their cracked , secret meetings having several times descended from heaven by the way of a trap - door , announcing the speedy opening of the seventh vial , which he carried in his vest - pocket ; but , which , instead of containing gunpowder , was supposed to be charged with laudanum .
For the present other matters press , and the best we can do now for the head , is to pray heaven the tackles may hold .
" In heaven ' s name , man ," cried Stubb , " are you ramming home a cartridge there ?-- Avast !
And how nobly it raises our conceit of the mighty , misty monster , to behold him solemnly sailing through a calm tropical sea ; his vast , mild head overhung by a canopy of vapour , engendered by his incommunicable contemplations , and that vapour -- as you will sometimes see it -- glorified by a rainbow , as if Heaven itself had put its seal upon his thoughts .
Out of the bottomless profundities the gigantic tail seems spasmodically snatching at the highest heaven .
What is the Archbishop of Savesoul ' s income of L100 , 000 seized from the scant bread and cheese of hundreds of thousands of broken - backed laborers ( all sure of heaven without any of Savesoul ' s help ) what is that globular L100 , 000 but a Fast - Fish ?
So man ' s insanity is heaven ' s sense ; and wandering from all mortal reason , man comes at last to that celestial thought , which , to reason , is absurd and frantic ; and weal or woe , feels then uncompromised , indifferent as his God .
A dark valley between three mighty , heaven - abiding peaks , that almost seem the Trinity , in some faint earthly symbol .
There ' s a sermon now , writ in high heaven , and the sun goes through it every year , and yet comes out of it all alive and hearty .
So that -- let us say it again -- no dying Chaldee or Greek had higher and holier thoughts than those , whose mysterious shades you saw creeping over the face of poor Queequeg , as he quietly lay in his swaying hammock , and the rolling sea seemed gently rocking him to his final rest , and the ocean ' s invisible flood - tide lifted him higher and higher towards his destined heaven .
Curse thee , thou vain toy ; and cursed be all the things that cast man ' s eyes aloft to that heaven , whose live vividness but scorches him , as these old eyes are even now scorched with thy light , O sun !
there goes my tarpaulin overboard ; Lord , Lord , that the winds that come from heaven should be so unmannerly !
I stand alone here upon an open sea , with two oceans and a whole continent between me and law .-- Aye , aye , ' tis so .-- Is heaven a murderer when its lightning strikes a would - be murderer in his bed , tindering sheets and skin together ?-- And would I be a murderer , then , if "-- and slowly , stealthily , and half sideways looking , he placed the loaded musket ' s end against the door .
The magnetic energy , as developed in the mariner ' s needle , is , as all know , essentially one with the electricity beheld in heaven ; hence it is not to be much marvelled at , that such things should be .
" Thou poor , proud heaven - gazer and sun ' s pilot !
Tied up and twisted ; gnarled and knotted with wrinkles ; haggardly firm and unyielding ; his eyes glowing like coals , that still glow in the ashes of ruin ; untottering Ahab stood forth in the clearness of the morn ; lifting his splintered helmet of a brow to the fair girl ' s forehead of heaven .
But if the great sun move not of himself ; but is as an errand - boy in heaven ; nor one single star can revolve , but by some invisible power ; how then can this one small heart beat ; this one small brain think thoughts ; unless God does that beating , does that thinking , does that living , and not I .
By heaven , man , we are turned round and round in this world , like yonder windlass , and Fate is the handspike .
was the cry , as in his immeasurable bravadoes the White Whale tossed himself salmon - like to Heaven .
While the two crews were yet circling in the waters , reaching out after the revolving line - tubs , oars , and other floating furniture , while aslope little Flask bobbed up and down like an empty vial , twitching his legs upwards to escape the dreaded jaws of sharks ; and Stubb was lustily singing out for some one to ladle him up ; and while the old man ' s line -- now parting -- admitted of his pulling into the creamy pool to rescue whom he could ;-- in that wild simultaneousness of a thousand concreted perils ,-- Ahab ' s yet unstricken boat seemed drawn up towards Heaven by invisible wires ,-- as , arrow - like , shooting perpendicularly from the sea , the White Whale dashed his broad forehead against its bottom , and sent it , turning over and over , into the air ; till it fell again -- gunwale downwards -- and Ahab and his men struggled out from under it , like seals from a sea - side cave .
By heaven it cannot be !-- missing ?-- quick !
By heaven this dead wood has the better of my live flesh every way .
cried Ahab to the oarsmen , and the boats darted forward to the attack ; but maddened by yesterday ' s fresh irons that corroded in him , Moby Dick seemed combinedly possessed by all the angels that fell from heaven .
A sky - hawk that tauntingly had followed the main - truck downwards from its natural home among the stars , pecking at the flag , and incommoding Tashtego there ; this bird now chanced to intercept its broad fluttering wing between the hammer and the wood ; and simultaneously feeling that etherial thrill , the submerged savage beneath , in his death - gasp , kept his hammer frozen there ; and so the bird of heaven , with archangelic shrieks , and his imperial beak thrust upwards , and his whole captive form folded in the flag of Ahab , went down with his ship , which , like Satan , would not sink to hell till she had dragged a living part of heaven along with her , and helmeted herself with it .
Say first -- for Heaven hides nothing from thy view , Nor the deep tract of Hell -- say first what cause Moved our grand parents , in that happy state , Favoured of Heaven so highly , to fall off From their Creator , and transgress his will For one restraint , lords of the World besides .
Th ' infernal Serpent ; he it was whose guile , Stirred up with envy and revenge , deceived The mother of mankind , what time his pride Had cast him out from Heaven , with all his host Of rebel Angels , by whose aid , aspiring To set himself in glory above his peers , He trusted to have equalled the Most High , If he opposed , and with ambitious aim Against the throne and monarchy of God , Raised impious war in Heaven and battle proud , With vain attempt .
Such place Eternal Justice has prepared For those rebellious ; here their prison ordained In utter darkness , and their portion set , As far removed from God and light of Heaven As from the centre thrice to th ' utmost pole .
To whom th ' Arch - Enemy , And thence in Heaven called Satan , with bold words Breaking the horrid silence , thus began :-- " If thou beest he -- but O how fallen !
Yet not for those , Nor what the potent Victor in his rage Can else inflict , do I repent , or change , Though changed in outward lustre , that fixed mind , And high disdain from sense of injured merit , That with the Mightiest raised me to contend , And to the fierce contentions brought along Innumerable force of Spirits armed , That durst dislike his reign , and , me preferring , His utmost power with adverse power opposed In dubious battle on the plains of Heaven , And shook his throne .
To bow and sue for grace With suppliant knee , and deify his power Who , from the terror of this arm , so late Doubted his empire -- that were low indeed ; That were an ignominy and shame beneath This downfall ; since , by fate , the strength of Gods , And this empyreal sybstance , cannot fail ; Since , through experience of this great event , In arms not worse , in foresight much advanced , We may with more successful hope resolve To wage by force or guile eternal war , Irreconcilable to our grand Foe , Who now triumphs , and in th ' excess of joy Sole reigning holds the tyranny of Heaven ."
So spake th ' apostate Angel , though in pain , Vaunting aloud , but racked with deep despair ; And him thus answered soon his bold compeer :-- " O Prince , O Chief of many throned Powers That led th ' embattled Seraphim to war Under thy conduct , and , in dreadful deeds Fearless , endangered Heaven ' s perpetual King , And put to proof his high supremacy , Whether upheld by strength , or chance , or fate , Too well I see and rue the dire event That , with sad overthrow and foul defeat , Hath lost us Heaven , and all this mighty host In horrible destruction laid thus low , As far as Gods and heavenly Essences Can perish : for the mind and spirit remains Invincible , and vigour soon returns , Though all our glory extinct , and happy state Here swallowed up in endless misery .
the angry Victor hath recalled His ministers of vengeance and pursuit Back to the gates of Heaven : the sulphurous hail , Shot after us in storm , o ' erblown hath laid The fiery surge that from the precipice Of Heaven received us falling ; and the thunder , Winged with red lightning and impetuous rage , Perhaps hath spent his shafts , and ceases now To bellow through the vast and boundless Deep .
So stretched out huge in length the Arch - fiend lay , Chained on the burning lake ; nor ever thence Had risen , or heaved his head , but that the will And high permission of all - ruling Heaven Left him at large to his own dark designs , That with reiterated crimes he might Heap on himself damnation , while he sought Evil to others , and enraged might see How all his malice served but to bring forth Infinite goodness , grace , and mercy , shewn On Man by him seduced , but on himself Treble confusion , wrath , and vengeance poured .
" Is this the region , this the soil , the clime ," Said then the lost Archangel , " this the seat That we must change for Heaven ?-- this mournful gloom For that celestial light ?
The mind is its own place , and in itself Can make a Heaven of Hell , a Hell of Heaven .
Here at least We shall be free ; th ' Almighty hath not built Here for his envy , will not drive us hence : Here we may reigh secure ; and , in my choice , To reign is worth ambition , though in Hell : Better to reign in Hell than serve in Heaven .
But wherefore let we then our faithful friends , Th ' associates and co - partners of our loss , Lie thus astonished on th ' oblivious pool , And call them not to share with us their part In this unhappy mansion , or once more With rallied arms to try what may be yet Regained in Heaven , or what more lost in Hell ?"
His spear -- to equal which the tallest pine Hewn on Norwegian hills , to be the mast Of some great ammiral , were but a wand -- He walked with , to support uneasy steps Over the burning marl , not like those steps On Heaven ' s azure ; and the torrid clime Smote on him sore besides , vaulted with fire .
He called so loud that all the hollow deep Of Hell resounded :--" Princes , Potentates , Warriors , the Flower of Heaven -- once yours ; now lost , If such astonishment as this can seize Eternal Spirits !
Or have ye chosen this place After the toil of battle to repose Your wearied virtue , for the ease you find To slumber here , as in the vales of Heaven ?
Or in this abject posture have ye sworn To adore the Conqueror , who now beholds Cherub and Seraph rolling in the flood With scattered arms and ensigns , till anon His swift pursuers from Heaven - gates discern Th ' advantage , and , descending , tread us down Thus drooping , or with linked thunderbolts Transfix us to the bottom of this gulf ?
Forthwith , form every squadron and each band , The heads and leaders thither haste where stood Their great Commander -- godlike Shapes , and Forms Excelling human ; princely Dignities ; And Powers that erst in Heaven sat on thrones , Though on their names in Heavenly records now Be no memorial , blotted out and rased By their rebellion from the Books of Life .
With these in troop Came Astoreth , whom the Phoenicians called Astarte , queen of heaven , with crescent horns ; To whose bright image nigntly by the moon Sidonian virgins paid their vows and songs ; In Sion also not unsung , where stood Her temple on th ' offensive mountain , built By that uxorious king whose heart , though large , Beguiled by fair idolatresses , fell To idols foul .
Belial came last ; than whom a Spirit more lewd Fell not from Heaven , or more gross to love Vice for itself .
These were the prime in order and in might : The rest were long to tell ; though far renowned Th ' Ionian gods -- of Javan ' s issue held Gods , yet confessed later than Heaven and Earth , Their boasted parents ;-- Titan , Heaven ' s first - born , With his enormous brood , and birthright seized By younger Saturn : he from mightier Jove , His own and Rhea ' s son , like measure found ; So Jove usurping reigned .
These , first in Crete And Ida known , thence on the snowy top Of cold Olympus ruled the middle air , Their highest heaven ; or on the Delphian cliff , Or in Dodona , and through all the bounds Of Doric land ; or who with Saturn old Fled over Adria to th ' Hesperian fields , And o ' er the Celtic roamed the utmost Isles .
Cruel his eye , but cast Signs of remorse and passion , to behold The fellows of his crime , the followers rather ( Far other once beheld in bliss ), condemned For ever now to have their lot in pain -- Millions of Spirits for his fault amerced Of Heaven , and from eteranl splendours flung For his revolt -- yet faithful how they stood , Their glory withered ; as , when heaven ' s fire Hath scathed the forest oaks or mountain pines , With singed top their stately growth , though bare , Stands on the blasted heath .
For who can yet believe , though after loss , That all these puissant legions , whose exile Hath emptied Heaven , shall fail to re - ascend , Self - raised , and repossess their native seat ?
For me , be witness all the host of Heaven , If counsels different , or danger shunned By me , have lost our hopes .
But he who reigns Monarch in Heaven till then as one secure Sat on his throne , upheld by old repute , Consent or custom , and his regal state Put forth at full , but still his strength concealed -- Which tempted our attempt , and wrought our fall .
Space may produce new Worlds ; whereof so rife There went a fame in Heaven that he ere long Intended to create , and therein plant A generation whom his choice regard Should favour equal to the Sons of Heaven .
Highly they raged Against the Highest , and fierce with grasped arms Clashed on their sounding shields the din of war , Hurling defiance toward the vault of Heaven .
Mammon led them on -- Mammon , the least erected Spirit that fell From Heaven ; for even in Heaven his looks and thoughts Were always downward bent , admiring more The riches of heaven ' s pavement , trodden gold , Than aught divine or holy else enjoyed In vision beatific .
His hand was known In Heaven by many a towered structure high , Where sceptred Angels held their residence , And sat as Princes , whom the supreme King Exalted to such power , and gave to rule , Each in his Hierarchy , the Orders bright .
Nor was his name unheard or unadored In ancient Greece ; and in Ausonian land Men called him Mulciber ; and how he fell From Heaven they fabled , thrown by angry Jove Sheer o ' er the crystal battlements : from morn To noon he fell , from noon to dewy eve , A summer ' s day , and with the setting sun Dropt from the zenith , like a falling star , On Lemnos , th ' Aegaean isle .
Thus they relate , Erring ; for he with this rebellious rout Fell long before ; nor aught aviled him now To have built in Heaven high towers ; nor did he scape By all his engines , but was headlong sent , With his industrious crew , to build in Hell .
High on a throne of royal state , which far Outshone the wealth or Ormus and of Ind , Or where the gorgeous East with richest hand Showers on her kings barbaric pearl and gold , Satan exalted sat , by merit raised To that bad eminence ; and , from despair Thus high uplifted beyond hope , aspires Beyond thus high , insatiate to pursue Vain war with Heaven ; and , by success untaught , His proud imaginations thus displayed :-- " Powers and Dominions , Deities of Heaven !-- For , since no deep within her gulf can hold Immortal vigour , though oppressed and fallen , I give not Heaven for lost : from this descent Celestial Virtues rising will appear More glorious and more dread than from no fall , And trust themselves to fear no second fate !-- Me though just right , and the fixed laws of Heaven , Did first create your leader -- next , free choice With what besides in council or in fight Hath been achieved of merit -- yet this loss , Thus far at least recovered , hath much more Established in a safe , unenvied throne , Yielded with full consent .
The happier state In Heaven , which follows dignity , might draw Envy from each inferior ; but who here Will envy whom the highest place exposes Foremost to stand against the Thunderer ' s aim Your bulwark , and condemns to greatest share Of endless pain ?
With this advantage , then , To union , and firm faith , and firm accord , More than can be in Heaven , we now return To claim our just inheritance of old , Surer to prosper than prosperity Could have assured us ; and by what best way , Whether of open war or covert guile , We now debate .
He ceased ; and next him Moloch , sceptred king , Stood up -- the strongest and the fiercest Spirit That fought in Heaven , now fiercer by despair .
For , while they sit contriving , shall the rest -- Millions that stand in arms , and longing wait The signal to ascend -- sit lingering here , Heaven ' s fugitives , and for their dwelling - place Accept this dark opprobrious den of shame , The prison of his ryranny who reigns By our delay ?
let us rather choose , Armed with Hell - flames and fury , all at once O ' er Heaven ' s high towers to force resistless way , Turning our tortures into horrid arms Against the Torturer ; when , to meet the noise Of his almighty engine , he shall hear Infernal thunder , and , for lightning , see Black fire and horror shot with equal rage Among his Angels , and his throne itself Mixed with Tartarean sulphur and strange fire , His own invented torments .
which , to the height enraged , Will either quite consume us , and reduce To nothing this essential -- happier far Than miserable to have eternal being !-- Or , if our substance be indeed divine , And cannot cease to be , we are at worst On this side nothing ; and by proof we feel Our power sufficient to disturb his Heaven , And with perpetual inroads to alarm , Though inaccessible , his fatal throne : Which , if not victory , is yet revenge ."
A fairer person lost not Heaven ; he seemed For dignity composed , and high exploit .
The towers of Heaven are filled With armed watch , that render all access Impregnable : oft on the bodering Deep Encamp their legions , or with obscure wing Scout far and wide into the realm of Night , Scorning surprise .
Or , could we break our way By force , and at our heels all Hell should rise With blackest insurrection to confound Heaven ' s purest light , yet our great Enemy , All incorruptible , would on his throne Sit unpolluted , and th ' ethereal mould , Incapable of stain , would soon expel Her mischief , and purge off the baser fire , Victorious .
What when we fled amain , pursued and struck With Heaven ' s afflicting thunder , and besought The Deep to shelter us ?
He from Heaven ' s height All these our motions vain sees and derides , Not more almighty to resist our might Than wise to frustrate all our plots and wiles .
Shall we , then , live thus vile -- the race of Heaven Thus trampled , thus expelled , to suffer here Chains and these torments ?
Thus Belial , with words clothed in reason ' s garb , Counselled ignoble ease and peaceful sloth , Not peace ; and after him thus Mammon spake :-- " Either to disenthrone the King of Heaven We war , if war be best , or to regain Our own right lost .
The former , vain to hope , argues as vain The latter ; for what place can be for us Within Heaven ' s bound , unless Heaven ' s Lord supreme We overpower ?
This must be our task In Heaven , this our delight .
Let us not then pursue , By force impossible , by leave obtained Unacceptable , though in Heaven , our state Of splendid vassalage ; but rather seek Our own good from ourselves , and from our own Live to ourselves , though in this vast recess , Free and to none accountable , preferring Hard liberty before the easy yoke Of servile pomp .
How oft amidst Thick clouds and dark doth Heaven ' s all - ruling Sire Choose to reside , his glory unobscured , And with the majesty of darkness round Covers his throne , from whence deep thunders roar .
Mustering their rage , and Heaven resembles Hell !
This desert soil Wants not her hidden lustre , gems and gold ; Nor want we skill or art from whence to raise Magnificence ; and what can Heaven show more ?
Such applause was heard As Mammon ended , and his sentence pleased , Advising peace : for such another field They dreaded worse than Hell ; so much the fear Of thunder and the sword of Michael Wrought still within them ; and no less desire To found this nether empire , which might rise , By policy and long process of time , In emulation opposite to Heaven .
Sage he stood With Atlantean shoulders , fit to bear The weight of mightiest monarchies ; his look Drew audience and attention still as night Or summer ' s noontide air , while thus he spake :-- " Thrones and Imperial Powers , Offspring of Heaven , Ethereal Virtues !
while we dream , And know not that the King of Heaven hath doomed This place our dungeon , not our safe retreat Beyond his potent arm , to live exempt From Heaven ' s high jurisdiction , in new league Banded against his throne , but to remain In strictest bondage , though thus far removed , Under th ' inevitable curb , reserved His captive multitude .
For he , to be sure , In height or depth , still first and last will reign Sole king , and of his kingdom lose no part By our revolt , but over Hell extend His empire , and with iron sceptre rule Us here , as with his golden those in Heaven .
Nor will occasion want , nor shall we need With dangerous expedition to invade Heaven , whose high walls fear no assault or siege , Or ambush from the Deep .
There is a place ( If ancient and prophetic fame in Heaven Err not )-- another World , the happy seat Of some new race , called Man , about this time To be created like to us , though less In power and excellence , but favoured more Of him who rules above ; so was his will Pronounced among the Gods , and by an oath That shook Heaven ' s whole circumference confirmed .
Though Heaven be shut , And Heaven ' s high Arbitrator sit secure In his own strength , this place may lie exposed , The utmost border of his kingdom , left To their defence who hold it : here , perhaps , Some advantageous act may be achieved By sudden onset -- either with Hell - fire To waste his whole creation , or possess All as our own , and drive , as we were driven , The puny habitants ; or , if not drive , Seduce them to our party , that their God May prove their foe , and with repenting hand Abolish his own works .
The bold design Pleased highly those infernal States , and joy Sparkled in all their eyes : with full assent They vote : whereat his speech he thus renews :-- " Well have ye judged , well ended long debate , Synod of Gods , and , like to what ye are , Great things resolved , which from the lowest deep Will once more lift us up , in spite of fate , Nearer our ancient seat -- perhaps in view Of those bright confines , whence , with neighbouring arms , And opportune excursion , we may chance Re - enter Heaven ; or else in some mild zone Dwell , not unvisited of Heaven ' s fair light , Secure , and at the brightening orient beam Purge off this gloom : the soft delicious air , To heal the scar of these corrosive fires , Shall breathe her balm .
None among the choice and prime Of those Heaven - warring champions could be found So hardy as to proffer or accept , Alone , the dreadful voyage ; till , at last , Satan , whom now transcendent glory raised Above his fellows , with monarchal pride Conscious of highest worth , unmoved thus spake :-- " O Progeny of Heaven !
Go , therefore , mighty Powers , Terror of Heaven , though fallen ; intend at home , While here shall be our home , what best may ease The present misery , and render Hell More tolerable ; if there be cure or charm To respite , or deceive , or slack the pain Of this ill mansion : intermit no watch Against a wakeful foe , while I abroad Through all the coasts of dark destruction seek Deliverance for us all .
Towards him they bend With awful reverence prone , and as a God Extol him equal to the Highest in Heaven .
Thus they their doubtful consultations dark Ended , rejoicing in their matchless Chief : As , when from mountain - tops the dusky clouds Ascending , while the north wind sleeps , o ' erspread Heaven ' s cheerful face , the louring element Scowls o ' er the darkened landscape snow or shower , If chance the radiant sun , with farewell sweet , Extend his evening beam , the fields revive , The birds their notes renew , and bleating herds Attest their joy , that hill and valley rings .
The Stygian council thus dissolved ; and forth In order came the grand infernal Peers : Midst came their mighty Paramount , and seemed Alone th ' antagonist of Heaven , nor less Than Hell ' s dread Emperor , with pomp supreme , And god - like imitated state : him round A globe of fiery Seraphim enclosed With bright emblazonry , and horrent arms .
Part on the plain , or in the air sublime , Upon the wing or in swift race contend , As at th ' Olympian games or Pythian fields ; Part curb their fiery steeds , or shun the goal With rapid wheels , or fronted brigades form : As when , to warn proud cities , war appears Waged in the troubled sky , and armies rush To battle in the clouds ; before each van Prick forth the airy knights , and couch their spears , Till thickest legions close ; with feats of arms From either end of heaven the welkin burns .
Retire ; or taste thy folly , and learn by proof , Hell - born , not to contend with Spirits of Heaven ."
art thou he , Who first broke peace in Heaven and faith , till then Unbroken , and in proud rebellious arms Drew after him the third part of Heaven ' s sons , Conjured against the Highest -- for which both thou And they , outcast from God , are here condemned To waste eternal days in woe and pain ?
And reckon ' st thou thyself with Spirits of Heaven Hell - doomed , and breath ' st defiance here and scorn , Where I reign king , and , to enrage thee more , Thy king and lord ?
Each at the head Levelled his deadly aim ; their fatal hands No second stroke intend ; and such a frown Each cast at th ' other as when two black clouds , With heaven ' s artillery fraught , came rattling on Over the Caspian ,-- then stand front to front Hovering a space , till winds the signal blow To join their dark encounter in mid - air .
T ' whom thus the Portress of Hell - gate replied :-- " Hast thou forgot me , then ; and do I seem Now in thine eye so foul ?-- once deemed so fair In Heaven , when at th ' assembly , and in sight Of all the Seraphim with thee combined In bold conspiracy against Heaven ' s King , All on a sudden miserable pain Surprised thee , dim thine eyes and dizzy swum In darkness , while thy head flames thick and fast Threw forth , till on the left side opening wide , Likest to thee in shape and countenance bright , Then shining heavenly fair , a goddess armed , Out of thy head I sprung .
Amazement seized All th ' host of Heaven ; back they recoiled afraid At first , and called me Sin , and for a sign Portentous held me ; but , familiar grown , I pleased , and with attractive graces won The most averse -- thee chiefly , who , full oft Thyself in me thy perfect image viewing , Becam ' st enamoured ; and such joy thou took ' st With me in secret that my womb conceived A growing burden .
Meanwhile war arose , And fields were fought in Heaven : wherein remained ( For what could else ?)
Down they fell , Driven headlong from the pitch of Heaven , down Into this Deep ; and in the general fall I also : at which time this powerful key Into my hands was given , with charge to keep These gates for ever shut , which none can pass Without my opening .
She finished ; and the subtle Fiend his lore Soon learned , now milder , and thus answered smooth :-- " Dear daughter -- since thou claim ' st me for thy sire , And my fair son here show ' st me , the dear pledge Of dalliance had with thee in Heaven , and joys Then sweet , now sad to mention , through dire change Befallen us unforeseen , unthought - of -- know , I come no enemy , but to set free From out this dark and dismal house of pain Both him and thee , and all the heavenly host Of Spirits that , in our just pretences armed , Fell with us from on high .
From them I go This uncouth errand sole , and one for all Myself expose , with lonely steps to tread Th ' unfounded Deep , and through the void immense To search , with wandering quest , a place foretold Should be -- and , by concurring signs , ere now Created vast and round -- a place of bliss In the purlieus of Heaven ; and therein placed A race of upstart creatures , to supply Perhaps our vacant room , though more removed , Lest Heaven , surcharged with potent multitude , Might hap to move new broils .
No less rejoiced His mother bad , and thus bespake her sire :-- " The key of this infernal Pit , by due And by command of Heaven ' s all - powerful King , I keep , by him forbidden to unlock These adamantine gates ; against all force Death ready stands to interpose his dart , Fearless to be o ' ermatched by living might .
But what owe I to his commands above , Who hates me , and hath hither thrust me down Into this gloom of Tartarus profound , To sit in hateful office here confined , Inhabitant of Heaven and heavenly born -- Here in perpetual agony and pain , With terrors and with clamours compassed round Of mine own brood , that on my bowels feed ?
Nor was his ear less pealed With noises loud and ruinous ( to compare Great things with small ) than when Bellona storms With all her battering engines , bent to rase Some capital city ; or less than if this frame Of Heaven were falling , and these elements In mutiny had from her axle torn The steadfast Earth .
T ' whom Satan , turning boldly , thus :--" Ye Powers And Spirtis of this nethermost Abyss , Chaos and ancient Night , I come no spy With purpose to explore or to disturb The secrets of your realm ; but , by constraint Wandering this darksome desert , as my way Lies through your spacious empire up to light , Alone and without guide , half lost , I seek , What readiest path leads where your gloomy bounds Confine with Heaven ; or , if some other place , From your dominion won , th ' Ethereal King Possesses lately , thither to arrive I travel this profound .
Thus Satan ; and him thus the Anarch old , With faltering speech and visage incomposed , Answered : " I know thee , stranger , who thou art -- *** That mighty leading Angel , who of late Made head against Heaven ' s King , though overthrown .
I saw and heard ; for such a numerous host Fled not in silence through the frighted Deep , With ruin upon ruin , rout on rout , Confusion worse confounded ; and Heaven - gates Poured out by millions her victorious bands , Pursuing .
I upon my frontiers here Keep residence ; if all I can will serve That little which is left so to defend , Encroached on still through our intestine broils Weakening the sceptre of old Night : first , Hell , Your dungeon , stretching far and wide beneath ; Now lately Heaven and Earth , another world Hung o ' er my realm , linked in a golden chain To that side Heaven from whence your legions fell !
Sin and Death amain , Following his track ( such was the will of Heaven ) Paved after him a broad and beaten way Over the dark Abyss , whose boiling gulf Tamely endured a bridge of wondrous length , From Hell continued , reaching th ' utmost orb Of this frail World ; by which the Spirits perverse With easy intercourse pass to and fro To tempt or punish mortals , except whom God and good Angels guard by special grace .
But now at last the sacred influence Of light appears , and from the walls of Heaven Shoots far into the bosom of dim Night A glimmering dawn .
Here Nature first begins Her farthest verge , and Chaos to retire , As from her outmost works , a broken foe , With tumult less and with less hostile din ; That Satan with less toil , and now with ease , Wafts on the calmer wave by dubious light , And , like a weather - beaten vessel , holds Gladly the port , though shrouds and tackle torn ; Or in the emptier waste , resembling air , Weighs his spread wings , at leisure to behold Far off th ' empyreal Heaven , extended wide In circuit , undetermined square or round , With opal towers and battlements adorned Of living sapphire , once his native seat ; And , fast by , hanging in a golden chain , This pendent World , in bigness as a star Of smallest magnitude close by the moon .
Hail , holy Light , offspring of Heaven firstborn , Or of the Eternal coeternal beam May I express thee unblam ' d ?
Now had the Almighty Father from above , From the pure empyrean where he sits High thron ' d above all highth , bent down his eye His own works and their works at once to view : About him all the Sanctities of Heaven Stood thick as stars , and from his sight receiv ' d Beatitude past utterance ; on his right The radiant image of his glory sat , His only son ; on earth he first beheld Our two first parents , yet the only two Of mankind in the happy garden plac ' d Reaping immortal fruits of joy and love , Uninterrupted joy , unrivall ' d love , In blissful solitude ; he then survey ' d Hell and the gulf between , and Satan there Coasting the wall of Heaven on this side Night In the dun air sublime , and ready now To stoop with wearied wings , and willing feet , On the bare outside of this world , that seem ' d Firm land imbosom ' d , without firmament , Uncertain which , in ocean or in air .
And now , Through all restraint broke loose , he wings his way Not far off Heaven , in the precincts of light , Directly towards the new created world , And man there plac ' d , with purpose to assay If him by force he can destroy , or , worse , By some false guile pervert ; and shall pervert ; For man will hearken to his glozing lies , And easily transgress the sole command , Sole pledge of his obedience : So will fall He and his faithless progeny : Whose fault ?
The first sort by their own suggestion fell , Self - tempted , self - deprav ' d : Man falls , deceiv ' d By the other first : Man therefore shall find grace , The other none : In mercy and justice both , Through Heaven and Earth , so shall my glory excel ; But Mercy , first and last , shall brightest shine .
Thus while God spake , ambrosial fragrance fill ' d All Heaven , and in the blessed Spirits elect Sense of new joy ineffable diffus ' d .
O Father , gracious was that word which clos ' d Thy sovran command , that Man should find grace ; , that Man should find grace ; For which both Heaven and earth shall high extol Thy praises , with the innumerable sound Of hymns and sacred songs , wherewith thy throne Encompass ' d shall resound thee ever blest .
But yet all is not done ; Man disobeying , Disloyal , breaks his fealty , and sins Against the high supremacy of Heaven , Affecting God - head , and , so losing all , To expiate his treason hath nought left , But to destruction sacred and devote , He , with his whole posterity , must die , Die he or justice must ; unless for him Some other able , and as willing , pay The rigid satisfaction , death for death .
Dwells in all Heaven charity so dear ?
And silence was in Heaven : $ on Man ' s behalf He ask ' d , but all the heavenly quire stood mute , Patron or intercessour none appear ' d , Much less that durst upon his own head draw The deadly forfeiture , and ransom set .
Thou , at the sight Pleased , out of Heaven shalt look down and smile , While , by thee raised , I ruin all my foes ; Death last , and with his carcase glut the grave ; Then , with the multitude of my redeemed , Shall enter Heaven , long absent , and return , Father , to see thy face , wherein no cloud Of anger shall remain , but peace assured And reconcilement : wrath shall be no more Thenceforth , but in thy presence joy entire .
Admiration seized All Heaven , what this might mean , and whither tend , Wondering ; but soon th ' Almighty thus replied .
O thou in Heaven and Earth the only peace Found out for mankind under wrath , O thou My sole complacence !
Because thou hast , though throned in highest bliss Equal to God , and equally enjoying God - like fruition , quitted all , to save A world from utter loss , and hast been found By merit more than birthright Son of God , Found worthiest to be so by being good , Far more than great or high ; because in thee Love hath abounded more than glory abounds ; Therefore thy humiliation shall exalt With thee thy manhood also to this throne : Here shalt thou sit incarnate , here shalt reign Both God and Man , Son both of God and Man , Anointed universal King ; all power I give thee ; reign for ever , and assume Thy merits ; under thee , as head supreme , Thrones , Princedoms , Powers , Dominions , I reduce : All knees to thee shall bow , of them that bide In Heaven , or Earth , or under Earth in Hell .
When thou , attended gloriously from Heaven , Shalt in the sky appear , and from thee send The summoning Arch - Angels to proclaim Thy dread tribunal ; forthwith from all winds , The living , and forthwith the cited dead Of all past ages , to the general doom Shall hasten ; such a peal shall rouse their sleep .
Mean while The world shall burn , and from her ashes spring New Heaven and Earth , wherein the just shall dwell , And , after all their tribulations long , See golden days , fruitful of golden deeds , With joy and peace triumphing , and fair truth .
No sooner had the Almighty ceased , but all The multitude of Angels , with a shout Loud as from numbers without number , sweet As from blest voices , uttering joy , Heaven rung With jubilee , and loud Hosannas filled The eternal regions : Lowly reverent Towards either throne they bow , and to the ground With solemn adoration down they cast Their crowns inwove with amarant and gold ; Immortal amarant , a flower which once In Paradise , fast by the tree of life , Began to bloom ; but soon for man ' s offence To Heaven removed , where first it grew , there grows , And flowers aloft shading the fount of life , And where the river of bliss through midst of Heaven Rolls o ' er Elysian flowers her amber stream ; With these that never fade the Spirits elect Bind their resplendent locks inwreathed with beams ; Now in loose garlands thick thrown off , the bright Pavement , that like a sea of jasper shone , Impurpled with celestial roses smiled .
Then , crowned again , their golden harps they took , Harps ever tuned , that glittering by their side Like quivers hung , and with preamble sweet Of charming symphony they introduce Their sacred song , and waken raptures high ; No voice exempt , no voice but well could join Melodious part , such concord is in Heaven .
Thee , Father , first they sung Omnipotent , Immutable , Immortal , Infinite , Eternal King ; the Author of all being , Fonntain of light , thyself invisible Amidst the glorious brightness where thou sit ' st Throned inaccessible , but when thou shadest The full blaze of thy beams , and , through a cloud Drawn round about thee like a radiant shrine , Dark with excessive bright thy skirts appear , Yet dazzle Heaven , that brightest Seraphim Approach not , but with both wings veil their eyes .
He Heaven of Heavens and all the Powers therein By thee created ; and by thee threw down The aspiring Dominations : Thou that day Thy Father ' s dreadful thunder didst not spare , Nor stop thy flaming chariot - wheels , that shook Heaven ' s everlasting frame , while o ' er the necks Thou drovest of warring Angels disarrayed .
Thus they in Heaven , above the starry sphere , Their happy hours in joy and hymning spent .
Mean while upon the firm opacous globe Of this round world , whose first convex divides The luminous inferiour orbs , enclosed From Chaos , and the inroad of Darkness old , Satan alighted walks : A globe far off It seemed , now seems a boundless continent Dark , waste , and wild , under the frown of Night Starless exposed , and ever - threatening storms Of Chaos blustering round , inclement sky ; Save on that side which from the wall of Heaven , Though distant far , some small reflection gains Of glimmering air less vexed with tempest loud : Here walked the Fiend at large in spacious field .
Here pilgrims roam , that strayed so far to seek In Golgotha him dead , who lives in Heaven ; And they , who to be sure of Paradise , Dying , put on the weeds of Dominick , Or in Franciscan think to pass disguised ; They pass the planets seven , and pass the fixed , And that crystalling sphere whose balance weighs The trepidation talked , and that first moved ; And now Saint Peter at Heaven ' s wicket seems To wait them with his keys , and now at foot Of Heaven ' s ascent they lift their feet , when lo A violent cross wind from either coast Blows them transverse , ten thousand leagues awry Into the devious air : Then might ye see Cowls , hoods , and habits , with their wearers , tost And fluttered into rags ; then reliques , beads , Indulgences , dispenses , pardons , bulls , The sport of winds : All these , upwhirled aloft , Fly o ' er the backside of the world far off Into a Limbo large and broad , since called The Paradise of Fools , to few unknown Long after ; now unpeopled , and untrod .
All this dark globe the Fiend found as he passed , And long he wandered , till at last a gleam Of dawning light turned thither - ward in haste His travelled steps : far distant he descries Ascending by degrees magnificent Up to the wall of Heaven a structure high ; At top whereof , but far more rich , appeared The work as of a kingly palace - gate , With frontispiece of diamond and gold Embellished ; thick with sparkling orient gems The portal shone , inimitable on earth By model , or by shading pencil , drawn .
These stairs were such as whereon Jacob saw Angels ascending and descending , bands Of guardians bright , when he from Esau fled To Padan - Aram , in the field of Luz Dreaming by night under the open sky And waking cried , This is the gate of Heaven .
Each stair mysteriously was meant , nor stood There always , but drawn up to Heaven sometimes Viewless ; and underneath a bright sea flowed Of jasper , or of liquid pearl , whereon Who after came from earth , failing arrived Wafted by Angels , or flew o ' er the lake Rapt in a chariot drawn by fiery steeds .
Satan from hence , now on the lower stair , That scaled by steps of gold to Heaven - gate , Looks down with wonder at the sudden view Of all this world at once .
; t ? kast by break of cheerful dawn Obtains the brow of some high - climbing hill , Which to his eye discovers unaware The goodly prospect of some foreign land First seen , or some renowned metropolis With glistering spires and pinnacles adorned , Which now the rising sun gilds with his beams : Such wonder seised , though after Heaven seen , The Spirit malign , but much more envy seised , At sight of all this world beheld so fair .
Round he surveys ( and well might , where he stood So high above the circling canopy Of night ' s extended shade ,) from eastern point Of Libra to the fleecy star that bears Andromeda far off Atlantick seas Beyond the horizon ; then from pole to pole He views in breadth , and without longer pause Down right into the world ' s first region throws His flight precipitant , and winds with ease Through the pure marble air his oblique way Amongst innumerable stars , that shone Stars distant , but nigh hand seemed other worlds ; Or other worlds they seemed , or happy isles , Like those Hesperian gardens famed of old , Fortunate fields , and groves , and flowery vales , Thrice happy isles ; but who dwelt happy there He staid not to inquire : Above them all The golden sun , in splendour likest Heaven , Allured his eye ; thither his course he bends Through the calm firmament , ( but up or down , By center , or eccentrick , hard to tell , Or longitude ,) where the great luminary Aloof the vulgar constellations thick , That from his lordly eye keep distance due , Dispenses light from far ; they , as they move Their starry dance in numbers that compute Days , months , and years , towards his all - cheering lamp Turn swift their various motions , or are turned By his magnetick beam , that gently warms The universe , and to each inward part With gentle penetration , though unseen , Shoots invisible virtue even to the deep ; So wonderously was set his station bright .
Uriel , for thou of those seven Spirits that stand In sight of God ' s high throne , gloriously bright , The first art wont his great authentick will Interpreter through highest Heaven to bring , Where all his sons thy embassy attend ; And here art likeliest by supreme decree Like honour to obtain , and as his eye To visit oft this new creation round ; Unspeakable desire to see , and know All these his wonderous works , but chiefly Man , His chief delight and favour , him for whom All these his works so wonderous he ordained , Hath brought me from the quires of Cherubim Alone thus wandering .
So spake the false dissembler unperceived ; For neither Man nor Angel can discern Hypocrisy , the only evil that walks Invisible , except to God alone , By his permissive will , through Heaven and Earth : And oft , though wisdom wake , suspicion sleeps At wisdom ' s gate , and to simplicity Resigns her charge , while goodness thinks no ill Where no ill seems : Which now for once beguiled Uriel , though regent of the sun , and held The sharpest - sighted Spirit of all in Heaven ; Who to the fraudulent impostor foul , In his uprightness , answer thus returned .
Fair Angel , thy desire , which tends to know The works of God , thereby to glorify The great Work - master , leads to no excess That reaches blame , but rather merits praise The more it seems excess , that led thee hither From thy empyreal mansion thus alone , To witness with thine eyes what some perhaps , Contented with report , hear only in Heaven : For wonderful indeed are all his works , Pleasant to know , and worthiest to be all Had in remembrance always with delight ; But what created mind can comprehend Their number , or the wisdom infinite That brought them forth , but hid their causes deep ?
I saw when at his word the formless mass , This world ' s material mould , came to a heap : Confusion heard his voice , and wild uproar Stood ruled , stood vast infinitude confined ; Till at his second bidding Darkness fled , Light shone , and order from disorder sprung : Swift to their several quarters hasted then The cumbrous elements , earth , flood , air , fire ; And this ethereal quintessence of Heaven Flew upward , spirited with various forms , That rolled orbicular , and turned to stars Numberless , as thou seest , and how they move ; Each had his place appointed , each his course ; The rest in circuit walls this universe .
Look downward on that globe , whose hither side With light from hence , though but reflected , shines ; That place is Earth , the seat of Man ; that light His day , which else , as the other hemisphere , Night would invade ; but there the neighbouring moon So call that opposite fair star ) her aid Timely interposes , and her monthly round Still ending , still renewing , through mid Heaven , With borrowed light her countenance triform Hence fills and empties to enlighten the Earth , And in her pale dominion checks the night .
Thus said , he turned ; and Satan , bowing low , As to superiour Spirits is wont in Heaven , Where honour due and reverence none neglects , Took leave , and toward the coast of earth beneath , Down from the ecliptick , sped with hoped success , Throws his steep flight in many an aery wheel ; Nor staid , till on Niphates ' top he lights .
O , for that warning voice , which he , who saw The Apocalypse , heard cry in Heaven aloud , Then when the Dragon , put to second rout , Came furious down to be revenged on men , Woe to the inhabitants on earth !
Sometimes towards Eden , which now in his view Lay pleasant , his grieved look he fixes sad ; Sometimes towards Heaven , and the full - blazing sun , Which now sat high in his meridian tower : Then , much revolving , thus in sighs began .
to tell thee how I hate thy beams , That bring to my remembrance from what state I fell , how glorious once above thy sphere ; Till pride and worse ambition threw me down Warring in Heaven against Heaven ' s matchless King : Ah , wherefore !
Thou hadst : whom hast thou then or what to accuse , But Heaven ' s free love dealt equally to all ?
Which way I fly is Hell ; myself am Hell ; And , in the lowest deep , a lower deep Still threatening to devour me opens wide , To which the Hell I suffer seems a Heaven .
all good to me is lost ; Evil , be thou my good ; by thee at least Divided empire with Heaven ' s King I hold , By thee , and more than half perhaps will reign ; As Man ere long , and this new world , shall know .
Beneath him with new wonder now he views , To all delight of human sense exposed , In narrow room , Nature ' s whole wealth , yea more , A Heaven on Earth : For blissful Paradise Of God the garden was , by him in the east Of Eden planted ; Eden stretched her line From Auran eastward to the royal towers Of great Seleucia , built by Grecian kings , Of where the sons of Eden long before Dwelt in Telassar : In this pleasant soil His far more pleasant garden God ordained ; Out of the fertile ground he caused to grow All trees of noblest kind for sight , smell , taste ; And all amid them stood the tree of life , High eminent , blooming ambrosial fruit Of vegetable gold ; and next to life , Our death , the tree of knowledge , grew fast by , Knowledge of good bought dear by knowing ill . Southward through Eden went a river large , Nor changed his course , but through the shaggy hill Passed underneath ingulfed ; for God had thrown That mountain as his garden - mould high raised Upon the rapid current , which , through veins Of porous earth with kindly thirst up - drawn , Rose a fresh fountain , and with many a rill Watered the garden ; thence united fell Down the steep glade , and met the nether flood , Which from his darksome passage now appears , And now , divided into four main streams , Runs diverse , wandering many a famous realm And country , whereof here needs no account ; But rather to tell how , if Art could tell , How from that sapphire fount the crisped brooks , Rolling on orient pearl and sands of gold , With mazy errour under pendant shades Ran nectar , visiting each plant , and fed Flowers worthy of Paradise , which not nice Art In beds and curious knots , but Nature boon Poured forth profuse on hill , and dale , and plain , Both where the morning sun first warmly smote The open field , and where the unpierced shade Imbrowned the noontide bowers : Thus was this place A happy rural seat of various view ; Groves whose rich trees wept odorous gums and balm , Others whose fruit , burnished with golden rind , Hung amiable , Hesperian fables true , If true , here only , and of delicious taste : Betwixt them lawns , or level downs , and flocks Grazing the tender herb , were interposed , Or palmy hillock ; or the flowery lap Of some irriguous valley spread her store , Flowers of all hue , and without thorn the rose : Another side , umbrageous grots and caves Of cool recess , o ' er which the mantling vine Lays forth her purple grape , and gently creeps Luxuriant ; mean while murmuring waters fall Down the slope hills , dispersed , or in a lake , That to the fringed bank with myrtle crowned Her crystal mirrour holds , unite their streams .
About them frisking played All beasts of the earth , since wild , and of all chase In wood or wilderness , forest or den ; Sporting the lion ramped , and in his paw Dandled the kid ; bears , tigers , ounces , pards , Gambolled before them ; the unwieldy elephant , To make them mirth , used all his might , and wreathed His ? kithetmroboscis ; close the serpent sly , Insinuating , wove with Gordian twine His braided train , and of his fatal guile Gave proof unheeded ; others on the grass Couched , and now filled with pasture gazing sat , Or bedward ruminating ; for the sun , Declined , was hasting now with prone career To the ocean isles , and in the ascending scale Of Heaven the stars that usher evening rose : When Satan still in gaze , as first he stood , Scarce thus at length failed speech recovered sad .
gentle pair , ye little think how nigh Your change approaches , when all these delights Will vanish , and deliver ye to woe ; More woe , the more your taste is now of joy ; Happy , but for so happy ill secured Long to continue , and this high seat your Heaven Ill fenced for Heaven to keep out such a foe As now is entered ; yet no purposed foe To you , whom I could pity thus forlorn , Though I unpitied : League with you I seek , And mutual amity , so strait , so close , That I with you must dwell , or you with me Henceforth ; my dwelling haply may not please , Like this fair Paradise , your sense ; yet such Accept your Maker ' s work ; he gave it me , Which I as freely give : Hell shall unfold , To entertain you two , her widest gates , And send forth all her kings ; there will be room , Not like these narrow limits , to receive Your numerous offspring ; if no better place , Thank him who puts me loth to this revenge On you who wrong me not for him who wronged .
Not distant far from thence a murmuring sound Of waters issued from a cave , and spread Into a liquid plain , then stood unmoved Pure as the expanse of Heaven ; I thither went With unexperienced thought , and laid me down On the green bank , to look into the clear Smooth lake , that to me seemed another sky .
hence I will excite their minds With more desire to know , and to reject Envious commands , invented with design To keep them low , whom knowledge might exalt Equal with Gods : aspiring to be such , They taste and die : What likelier can ensue But first with narrow search I must walk round This garden , and no corner leave unspied ; A chance but chance may lead where I may meet Some wandering Spirit of Heaven by fountain side , Or in thick shade retired , from him to draw What further would be learned .
So saying , his proud step he scornful turned , But with sly circumspection , and began Through wood , through waste , o ' er hill , o ' er dale , his roam Mean while in utmost longitude , where Heaven With earth and ocean meets , the setting sun Slowly descended , and with right aspect Against the eastern gate of Paradise Levelled his evening rays : It was a rock Of alabaster , piled up to the clouds , Conspicuous far , winding with one ascent Accessible from earth , one entrance high ; The rest was craggy cliff , that overhung Still as it rose , impossible to climb .
Betwixt these rocky pillars Gabriel sat , Chief of the angelick guards , awaiting night ; About him exercised heroick games The unarmed youth of Heaven , but nigh at hand Celestial armoury , shields , helms , and spears , Hung high with diamond flaming , and with gold .
This day at highth of noon came to my sphere A Spirit , zealous , as he seemed , to know More of the Almighty ' s works , and chiefly Man , God ' s latest image : I described his way Bent all on speed , and marked his aery gait ; But in the mount that lies from Eden north , Where he first lighted , soon discerned his looks Alien from Heaven , with passions foul obscured : Mine eye pursued him still , but under shade Lost sight of him : One of the banished crew , I fear , hath ventured from the deep , to raise New troubles ; him thy care must be to find .
Uriel , no wonder if thy perfect sight , Amid the sun ' s bright circle where thou sitst , See far and wide : In at this gate none pass The vigilance here placed , but such as come Well known from Heaven ; and since meridian hour No creature thence : If Spirit of other sort , So minded , have o ' er - leaped these earthly bounds On purpose , hard thou knowest it to exclude Spiritual substance with corporeal bar .
Fair Consort , the hour Of night , and all things now retired to rest , Mind us of like repose ; since God hath set Labour and rest , as day and night , to men Successive ; and the timely dew of sleep , Now falling with soft slumbrous weight , inclines Our eye - lids : Other creatures all day long Rove idle , unemployed , and less need rest ; Man hath his daily work of body or mind Appointed , which declares his dignity , And the regard of Heaven on all his ways ; While other animals unactive range , And of their doings God takes no account .
Sweet is the breath of Morn , her rising sweet , With charm of earliest birds : pleasant the sun , When first on this delightful land he spreads His orient beams , on herb , tree , fruit , and flower , Glistering with dew ; fragrant the fertile earth After soft showers ; and sweet the coming on Of grateful Evening mild ; then silent Night , With this her solemn bird , and this fair moon , And these the gems of Heaven , her starry train : But neither breath of Morn , when she ascends With charm of earliest birds ; nor rising sun On this delightful land ; nor herb , fruit , flower , Glistering with dew ; nor fragrance after showers ; Nor grateful Evening mild ; nor silent Night , With this her solemn bird , nor walk by moon , Or glittering star - light , without thee is sweet .
These then , though unbeheld in deep of night , Shine not in vain ; nor think , though men were none , That Heaven would want spectators , God want praise : Millions of spiritual creatures walk the earth Unseen , both when we wake , and when we sleep : All these with ceaseless praise his works behold Both day and night : How often from the steep Of echoing hill or thicket have we heard Celestial voices to the midnight air , Sole , or responsive each to others note , Singing their great Creator ?
oft in bands While they keep watch , or nightly rounding walk , With heavenly touch of instrumental sounds In full harmonick number joined , their songs Divide the night , and lift our thoughts to Heaven .
Thus , at their shady lodge arrived , both stood , Both turned , and under open sky adored The God that made both sky , air , earth , and heaven , Which they beheld , the moon ' s resplendent globe , And starry pole : Thou also madest the night , Maker Omnipotent , and thou the day , Which we , in our appointed work employed , Have finished , happy in our mutual help And mutual love , the crown of all our bliss Ordained by thee ; and this delicious place For us too large , where thy abundance wants Partakers , and uncropt falls to the ground .
Think not , revolted Spirit , thy shape the same , Or undiminished brightness to be known , As when thou stoodest in Heaven upright and pure ; That glory then , when thou no more wast good , Departed from thee ; and thou resemblest now Thy sin and place of doom obscure and foul .
thou hadst in Heaven the esteem of wise , And such I held thee ; but this question asked Puts me in doubt .
O loss of one in Heaven to judge of wise Since Satan fell , whom folly overthrew , And now returns him from his prison ' scaped , Gravely in doubt whether to hold them wise Or not , who ask what boldness brought him hither Unlicensed from his bounds in Hell prescribed ; So wise he judges it to fly from pain However , and to ' scape his punishment !
But still thy words at random , as before , Argue thy inexperience what behoves From hard assays and ill successes past A faithful leader , not to hazard all Through ways of danger by himself untried : I , therefore , I alone first undertook To wing the desolate abyss , and spy This new created world , whereof in Hell Fame is not silent , here in hope to find Better abode , and my afflicted Powers To settle here on earth , or in mid air ; Though for possession put to try once more What thou and thy gay legions dare against ; Whose easier business were to serve their Lord High up in Heaven , with songs to hymn his throne , And practised distances to cringe , not fight , To whom the warriour Angel soon replied .
And thou , sly hypocrite , who now wouldst seem Patron of liberty , who more than thou Once fawned , and cringed , and servily adored Heaven ' s awful Monarch ?
but ere then Far heavier load thyself expect to feel From my prevailing arm , though Heaven ' s King Ride on thy wings , and thou with thy compeers , Us ' d to the yoke , drawest his triumphant wheels In progress through the road of Heaven star - paved .
On the other side , Satan , alarmed , Collecting all his might , dilated stood , Like Teneriff or Atlas , unremoved : His stature reached the sky , and on his crest Sat Horrour plumed ; nor wanted in his grasp What seemed both spear and shield : Now dreadful deeds Might have ensued , nor only Paradise In this commotion , but the starry cope Of Heaven perhaps , or all the elements At least had gone to wrack , disturbed and torn With violence of this conflict , had not soon The Eternal , to prevent such horrid fray , Hung forth in Heaven his golden scales , yet seen Betwixt Astrea and the Scorpion sign , Wherein all things created first he weighed , The pendulous round earth with balanced air In counterpoise , now ponders all events , Battles and realms : In these he put two weights , The sequel each of parting and of fight : The latter quick up flew , and kicked the beam , Which Gabriel spying , thus bespake the Fiend .
since thine no more Than Heaven permits , nor mine , though doubled now To trample thee as mire : For proof look up , And read thy lot in yon celestial sign ; Where thou art weighed , and shown how light , how weak , If thou resist .
Awake , My fairest , my espoused , my latest found , Heaven ' s last best gift , my ever new delight !
now is the pleasant time , ' The cool , the silent , save where silence yields ' To the night - warbling bird , that now awake ' Tunes sweetest his love - laboured song ; now reigns ' Full - orbed the moon , and with more pleasing light ' Shadowy sets off the face of things ; in vain , ' If none regard ; Heaven wakes with all his eyes , ' Whom to behold but thee , Nature ' s desire ?
I rose as at thy call , but found thee not ; To find thee I directed then my walk ; And on , methought , alone I passed through ways That brought me on a sudden to the tree Of interdicted knowledge : fair it seemed , Much fairer to my fancy than by day : And , as I wondering looked , beside it stood One shaped and winged like one of those from Heaven By us oft seen ; his dewy locks distilled Ambrosia ; on that tree he also gazed ; And ' O fair plant ,' said he , ' with fruit surcharged , ' Deigns none to ease thy load , and taste thy sweet , ' Nor God , nor Man ?
' Partake thou also ; happy though thou art , ' Happier thou mayest be , worthier canst not be : ' Taste this , and be henceforth among the Gods ' Thyself a Goddess , not to earth confined , ' But sometimes in the air , as we , sometimes ' Ascend to Heaven , by merit thine , and see ' What life the Gods live there , and such live thou !'
Speak , ye who best can tell , ye sons of light , Angels ; for ye behold him , and with songs And choral symphonies , day without night , Circle his throne rejoicing ; ye in Heaven On Earth join all ye Creatures to extol Him first , him last , him midst , and without end .
Join voices , all ye living Souls : Ye Birds , That singing up to Heaven - gate ascend , Bear on your wings and in your notes his praise .
Them thus employed beheld With pity Heaven ' s high King , and to him called Raphael , the sociable Spirit , that deigned To travel with Tobias , and secured His marriage with the seventimes - wedded maid .
Go therefore , half this day as friend with friend Converse with Adam , in what bower or shade Thou findest him from the heat of noon retired , To respite his day - labour with repast , Or with repose ; and such discourse bring on , As may advise him of his happy state , Happiness in his power left free to will , Left to his own free will , his will though free , Yet mutable ; whence warn him to beware He swerve not , too secure : Tell him withal His danger , and from whom ; what enemy , Late fallen himself from Heaven , is plotting now The fall of others from like state of bliss ; By violence ?
So spake the Eternal Father , and fulfilled All justice : Nor delayed the winged Saint After his charge received ; but from among Thousand celestial Ardours , where he stood Veiled with his gorgeous wings , up springing light , Flew through the midst of Heaven ; the angelick quires , On each hand parting , to his speed gave way Through all the empyreal road ; till , at the gate Of Heaven arrived , the gate self - opened wide On golden hinges turning , as by work Divine the sovran Architect had framed .
At once on the eastern cliff of Paradise He lights , and to his proper shape returns A Seraph winged : Six wings he wore , to shade His lineaments divine ; the pair that clad Each shoulder broad , came mantling o ' er his breast With regal ornament ; the middle pair Girt like a starry zone his waist , and round Skirted his loins and thighs with downy gold And colours dipt in Heaven ; the third his feet Shadowed from either heel with feathered mail , Sky - tinctured grain .
Haste hither , Eve , and worth thy sight behold Eastward among those trees , what glorious shape Comes this way moving ; seems another morn Risen on mid - noon ; some great behest from Heaven To us perhaps he brings , and will vouchsafe This day to be our guest .
small store will serve , where store , All seasons , ripe for use hangs on the stalk ; Save what by frugal storing firmness gains To nourish , and superfluous moist consumes : But I will haste , and from each bough and brake , Each plant and juciest gourd , will pluck such choice To entertain our Angel - guest , as he Beholding shall confess , that here on Earth God hath dispensed his bounties as in Heaven .
Native of Heaven , for other place None can than Heaven such glorious shape contain ; Since , by descending from the thrones above , Those happy places thou hast deigned a while To want , and honour these , vouchsafe with us Two only , who yet by sovran gift possess This spacious ground , in yonder shady bower To rest ; and what the garden choicest bears To sit and taste , till this meridian heat Be over , and the sun more cool decline .
Adam , I therefore came ; nor art thou such Created , or such place hast here to dwell , As may not oft invite , though Spirits of Heaven , To visit thee ; lead on then where thy bower O ' ershades ; for these mid - hours , till evening rise , I have at will .
So to the sylvan lodge They came , that like Pomona ' s arbour smiled , With flowerets decked , and fragrant smells ; but Eve , Undecked save with herself , more lovely fair Than Wood - Nymph , or the fairest Goddess feigned Of three that in mount Ida naked strove , Stood to entertain her guest from Heaven ; no veil She needed , virtue - proof ; no thought infirm Altered her cheek .
Though in Heaven the trees Of life ambrosial fruitage bear , and vines Yield nectar ; though from off the boughs each morn We brush mellifluous dews , and find the ground Covered with pearly grain : Yet God hath here Varied his bounty so with new delights , As may compare with Heaven ; and to taste Think not I shall be nice .
Thus when with meats and drinks they had sufficed , Not burdened nature , sudden mind arose In Adam , not to let the occasion pass Given him by this great conference to know Of things above his world , and of their being Who dwell in Heaven , whose excellence he saw Transcend his own so far ; whose radiant forms , Divine effulgence , whose high power , so far Exceeded human ; and his wary speech Thus to the empyreal minister he framed .
Inhabitant with God , now know I well Thy favour , in this honour done to Man ; Under whose lowly roof thou hast vouchsafed To enter , and these earthly fruits to taste , Food not of Angels , yet accepted so , As that more willingly thou couldst not seem At Heaven ' s high feasts to have fed : yet what compare To whom the winged Hierarch replied .
Son of Heaven and Earth , Attend !
Myself , and all the angelick host , that stand In sight of God , enthroned , our happy state Hold , as you yours , while our obedience holds ; On other surety none : Freely we serve , Because we freely love , as in our will To love or not ; in this we stand or fall : And some are fallen , to disobedience fallen , And so from Heaven to deepest Hell ; O fall From what high state of bliss , into what woe !
Thy words Attentive , and with more delighted ear , Divine instructer , I have heard , than when Cherubick songs by night from neighbouring hills Aereal musick send : Nor knew I not To be both will and deed created free ; Yet that we never shall forget to love Our Maker , and obey him whose command Single is yet so just , my constant thoughts Assured me , and still assure : Though what thou tellest Hath passed in Heaven , some doubt within me move , But more desire to hear , if thou consent , The full relation , which must needs be strange , Worthy of sacred silence to be heard ; And we have yet large day , for scarce the sun Hath finished half his journey , and scarce begins His other half in the great zone of Heaven .
yet for thy good This is dispensed ; and what surmounts the reach Of human sense , I shall delineate so , By likening spiritual to corporal forms , As may express them best ; though what if Earth Be but a shadow of Heaven , and things therein Each to other like , more than on earth is thought ?
As yet this world was not , and Chaos wild Reigned where these Heavens now roll , where Earth now rests Upon her center poised ; when on a day ( For time , though in eternity , applied To motion , measures all things durable By present , past , and future ,) on such day As Heaven ' s great year brings forth , the empyreal host Of Angels by imperial summons called , Innumerable before the Almighty ' s throne Forthwith , from all the ends of Heaven , appeared Under their Hierarchs in orders bright : Ten thousand thousand ensigns high advanced , Standards and gonfalons ' twixt van and rear Stream in the air , and for distinction serve Of hierarchies , of orders , and degrees ; Or in their glittering tissues bear imblazed Holy memorials , acts of zeal and love Recorded eminent .
This day I have begot whom I declare My only Son , and on this holy hill Him have anointed , whom ye now behold At my right hand ; your head I him appoint ; And by myself have sworn , to him shall bow All knees in Heaven , and shall confess him Lord : Under his great vice - gerent reign abide United , as one individual soul , For ever happy : Him who disobeys , Me disobeys , breaks union , and that day , Cast out from God and blessed vision , falls Into utter darkness , deep ingulfed , his place Ordained without redemption , without end .
Evening now approached , ( For we have also our evening and our morn , We ours for change delectable , not need ;) Forthwith from dance to sweet repast they turn Desirous ; all in circles as they stood , Tables are set , and on a sudden piled With Angels food , and rubied nectar flows In pearl , in diamond , and massy gold , Fruit of delicious vines , the growth of Heaven .
Now when ambrosial night with clouds exhaled From that high mount of God , whence light and shade Spring both , the face of brightest Heaven had changed To grateful twilight , ( for night comes not there In darker veil ,) and roseat dews disposed All but the unsleeping eyes of God to rest ; Wide over all the plain , and wider far Than all this globous earth in plain outspread , ( Such are the courts of God ) the angelick throng , Dispersed in bands and files , their camp extend By living streams among the trees of life , Pavilions numberless , and sudden reared , Celestial tabernacles , where they slept Fanned with cool winds ; save those , who , in their course , Melodious hymns about the sovran throne Alternate all night long : but not so waked Satan ; so call him now , his former name Is heard no more in Heaven ; he of the first , If not the first Arch - Angel , great in power , In favour and pre - eminence , yet fraught With envy against the Son of God , that day Honoured by his great Father , and proclaimed Messiah King anointed , could not bear Through pride that sight , and thought himself impaired .
and rememberest what decree Of yesterday , so late hath passed the lips Of Heaven ' s Almighty .
So spake the false Arch - Angel , and infused Bad influence into the unwary breast Of his associate : He together calls , Or several one by one , the regent Powers , Under him Regent ; tells , as he was taught , That the Most High commanding , now ere night , Now ere dim night had disincumbered Heaven , The great hierarchal standard was to move ; Tells the suggested cause , and casts between Ambiguous words and jealousies , to sound Or taint integrity : But all obeyed The wonted signal , and superiour voice Of their great Potentate ; for great indeed His name , and high was his degree in Heaven ; His countenance , as the morning - star that guides The starry flock , allured them , and with lies Drew after him the third part of Heaven ' s host .
Mighty Father , thou thy foes Justly hast in derision , and , secure , Laughest at their vain designs and tumults vain , Matter to me of glory , whom their hate Illustrates , when they see all regal power Given me to quell their pride , and in event Know whether I be dextrous to subdue Thy rebels , or be found the worst in Heaven .
Regions they passed , the mighty regencies Of Seraphim , and Potentates , and Thrones , In their triple degrees ; regions to which All thy dominion , Adam , is no more Than what this garden is to all the earth , And all the sea , from one entire globose Stretched into longitude ; which having passed , At length into the limits of the north They came ; and Satan to his royal seat High on a hill , far blazing , as a mount Raised on a mount , with pyramids and towers From diamond quarries hewn , and rocks of gold ; The palace of great Lucifer , ( so call That structure in the dialect of men Interpreted ,) which not long after , he Affecting all equality with God , In imitation of that mount whereon Messiah was declared in sight of Heaven , The Mountain of the Congregation called ; For thither he assembled all his train , Pretending so commanded to consult About the great reception of their King , Thither to come , and with calumnious art Of counterfeited truth thus held their ears .
Ye will not , if I trust To know ye right , or if ye know yourselves Natives and sons of Heaven possessed before By none ; and if not equal all , yet free , Equally free ; for orders and degrees Jar not with liberty , but well consist .
Words which no ear ever to hear in Heaven Expected , least of all from thee , Ingrate , In place thyself so high above thy peers .
Canst thou with impious obloquy condemn The just decree of God , pronounced and sworn , That to his only Son , by right endued With regal scepter , every soul in Heaven Shall bend the knee , and in that honour due Confess him rightful King ?
shalt thou dispute With him the points of liberty , who made Thee what thou art , and formed the Powers of Heaven Such as he pleased , and circumscribed their being ?
by whom , As by his Word , the Mighty Father made All things , even thee ; and all the Spirits of Heaven By him created in their bright degrees , Crowned them with glory , and to their glory named Thrones , Dominations , Princedoms , Virtues , Powers , Essential Powers ; nor by his reign obscured , But more illustrious made ; since he the head One of our number thus reduced becomes ; His laws our laws ; all honour to him done Returns our own .
We know no time when we were not as now ; Know none before us , self - begot , self - raised By our own quickening power , when fatal course Had circled his full orb , the birth mature Of this our native Heaven , ethereal sons .
All night the dreadless Angel , unpursued , Through Heaven ' s wide champain held his way ; till Morn , Waked by the circling Hours , with rosy hand Unbarred the gates of light .
There is a cave Within the mount of God , fast by his throne , Where light and darkness in perpetual round Lodge and dislodge by turns , which makes through Heaven Grateful vicissitude , like day and night ; Light issues forth , and at the other door Obsequious darkness enters , till her hour To veil the Heaven , though darkness there might well Seem twilight here : And now went forth the Morn Such as in highest Heaven arrayed in gold Empyreal ; from before her vanished Night , Shot through with orient beams ; when all the plain Covered with thick embattled squadrons bright , Chariots , and flaming arms , and fiery steeds , Reflecting blaze on blaze , first met his view : War he perceived , war in procinct ; and found Already known what he for news had thought To have reported : Gladly then he mixed Among those friendly Powers , who him received With joy and acclamations loud , that one , That of so many myriads fallen , yet one Returned not lost .
Go , Michael , of celestial armies prince , And thou , in military prowess next , Gabriel , lead forth to battle these my sons Invincible ; lead forth my armed Saints , By thousands and by millions , ranged for fight , Equal in number to that Godless crew Rebellious : Them with fire and hostile arms Fearless assault ; and , to the brow of Heaven Pursuing , drive them out from God and bliss , Into their place of punishment , the gulf Of Tartarus , which ready opens wide His fiery Chaos to receive their fall .
So spake the Sovran Voice , and clouds began To darken all the hill , and smoke to roll In dusky wreaths , reluctant flames , the sign Of wrath awaked ; nor with less dread the loud Ethereal trumpet from on high ' gan blow : At which command the Powers militant , That stood for Heaven , in mighty quadrate joined Of union irresistible , moved on In silence their bright legions , to the sound Of instrumental harmony , that breathed Heroick ardour to adventurous deeds Under their God - like leaders , in the cause Of God and his Messiah .
On they move Indissolubly firm ; nor obvious hill , Nor straitening vale , nor wood , nor stream , divides Their perfect ranks ; for high above the ground Their march was , and the passive air upbore Their nimble tread ; as when the total kind Of birds , in orderly array on wing , Came summoned over Eden to receive Their names of thee ; so over many a tract Of Heaven they marched , and many a province wide , Tenfold the length of this terrene : At last , Far in the horizon to the north appeared From skirt to skirt a fiery region , stretched In battailous aspect , and nearer view Bristled with upright beams innumerable Of rigid spears , and helmets thronged , and shields Various , with boastful argument portrayed , The banded Powers of Satan hasting on With furious expedition ; for they weened That self - same day , by fight or by surprise , To win the mount of God , and on his throne To set the Envier of his state , the proud Aspirer ; but their thoughts proved fond and vain In the mid way : Though strange to us it seemed At first , that Angel should with Angel war , And in fierce hosting meet , who wont to meet So oft in festivals of joy and love Unanimous , as sons of one great Sire , Hymning the Eternal Father : But the shout Of battle now began , and rushing sound Of onset ended soon each milder thought .
O Heaven !
But well thou comest Before thy fellows , ambitious to win From me some plume , that thy success may show Destruction to the rest : This pause between , ( Unanswered lest thou boast ) to let thee know , At first I thought that Liberty and Heaven To heavenly souls had been all one ; but now I see that most through sloth had rather serve , Ministring Spirits , trained up in feast and song !
Such hast thou armed , the minstrelsy of Heaven , Servility with freedom to contend , As both their deeds compared this day shall prove .
Reign thou in Hell , thy kingdom ; let me serve In Heaven God ever blest , and his divine Behests obey , worthiest to be obeyed ; Yet chains in Hell , not realms , expect : Mean while From me returned , as erst thou saidst , from flight , This greeting on thy impious crest receive .
Amazement seised The rebel Thrones , but greater rage , to see Thus foiled their mightiest ; ours joy filled , and shout , Presage of victory , and fierce desire Of battle : Whereat Michael bid sound The Arch - Angel trumpet ; through the vast of Heaven It sounded , and the faithful armies rung Hosanna to the Highest : Nor stood at gaze The adverse legions , nor less hideous joined The horrid shock .
Now storming fury rose , And clamour such as heard in Heaven till now Was never ; arms on armour clashing brayed Horrible discord , and the madding wheels Of brazen chariots raged ; dire was the noise Of conflict ; over head the dismal hiss Of fiery darts in flaming vollies flew , And flying vaulted either host with fire .
All Heaven Resounded ; and had Earth been then , all Earth Had to her center shook .
when Millions of fierce encountering Angels fought On either side , the least of whom could wield These elements , and arm him with the force Of all their regions : How much more of power Army against army numberless to raise Dreadful combustion warring , and disturb , Though not destroy , their happy native seat ; Had not the Eternal King Omnipotent , From his strong hold of Heaven , high over - ruled And limited their might ; though numbered such As each divided legion might have seemed A numerous host ; in strength each armed hand A legion ; led in fight , yet leader seemed Each warriour single as in chief , expert When to advance , or stand , or turn the sway Of battle , open when , and when to close The ridges of grim war : No thought of flight , None of retreat , no unbecoming deed That argued fear ; each on himself relied , As only in his arm the moment lay Of victory : Deeds of eternal fame Were done , but infinite ; for wide was spread That war and various ; sometimes on firm ground A standing fight , then , soaring on main wing , Tormented all the air ; all air seemed then Conflicting fire .
At his approach The great Arch - Angel from his warlike toil Surceased , and glad , as hoping here to end Intestine war in Heaven , the arch - foe subdued Or captive dragged in chains , with hostile frown And visage all inflamed first thus began .
Author of evil , unknown till thy revolt , Unnamed in Heaven , now plenteous as thou seest These acts of hateful strife , hateful to all , Though heaviest by just measure on thyself , And thy adherents : How hast thou disturbed Heaven ' s blessed peace , and into nature brought Misery , uncreated till the crime Of thy rebellion !
But think not here To trouble holy rest ; Heaven casts thee out From all her confines .
Heaven , the seat of bliss , Brooks not the works of violence and war .
err not , that so shall end The strife which thou callest evil , but we style The strife of glory ; which we mean to win , Or turn this Heaven itself into the Hell Thou fablest ; here however to dwell free , If not to reign : Mean while thy utmost force , And join him named Almighty to thy aid , I fly not , but have sought thee far and nigh .
for likest Gods they seemed , Stood they or moved , in stature , motion , arms , Fit to decide the empire of great Heaven .
Mean while in other parts like deeds deserved Memorial , where the might of Gabriel fought , And with fierce ensigns pierced the deep array Of Moloch , furious king ; who him defied , And at his chariot - wheels to drag him bound Threatened , nor from the Holy One of Heaven Refrained his tongue blasphemous ; but anon Down cloven to the waist , with shattered arms And uncouth pain fled bellowing .
I might relate of thousands , and their names Eternize here on earth ; but those elect Angels , contented with their fame in Heaven , Seek not the praise of men : The other sort , In might though wonderous and in acts of war , Nor of renown less eager , yet by doom Cancelled from Heaven and sacred memory , Nameless in dark oblivion let them dwell .
Far otherwise the inviolable Saints , In cubick phalanx firm , advanced entire , Invulnerable , impenetrably armed ; Such high advantages their innocence Gave them above their foes ; not to have sinned , Not to have disobeyed ; in fight they stood Unwearied , unobnoxious to be pained By wound , though from their place by violence moved , Now Night her course began , and , over Heaven Inducing darkness , grateful truce imposed , And silence on the odious din of war : Under her cloudy covert both retired , Victor and vanquished : On the foughten field Michael and his Angels prevalent Encamping , placed in guard their watches round , Cherubick waving fires : On the other part , Satan with his rebellious disappeared , Far in the dark dislodged ; and , void of rest , His potentates to council called by night ; And in the midst thus undismayed began .
What Heaven ' s Lord had powerfullest to send Against us from about his throne , and judged Sufficient to subdue us to his will , But proves not so : Then fallible , it seems , Of future we may deem him , though till now Omniscient thought .
Which of us who beholds the bright surface Of this ethereous mould whereon we stand , This continent of spacious Heaven , adorned With plant , fruit , flower ambrosial , gems , and gold ; Whose eye so superficially surveys These things , as not to mind from whence they grow Deep under ground , materials dark and crude , Of spiritous and fiery spume , till touched With Heaven ' s ray , and tempered , they shoot forth So beauteous , opening to the ambient light ?
Now when fair morn orient in Heaven appeared , Up rose the victor - Angels , and to arms The matin trumpet sung : In arms they stood Of golden panoply , refulgent host , Soon banded ; others from the dawning hills Look round , and scouts each coast light - armed scour , Each quarter to descry the distant foe , Where lodged , or whither fled , or if for fight , In motion or in halt : Him soon they met Under spread ensigns moving nigh , in slow But firm battalion ; back with speediest sail Zophiel , of Cherubim the swiftest wing , Came flying , and in mid air aloud thus cried .
Vanguard , to right and left the front unfold ; That all may see who hate us , how we seek Peace and composure , and with open breast Stand ready to receive them , if they like Our overture ; and turn not back perverse : But that I doubt ; however witness , Heaven !
Heaven , witness thou anon !
Immediate in a flame , But soon obscured with smoke , all Heaven appeared , From those deep - throated engines belched , whose roar Embowelled with outrageous noise the air , And all her entrails tore , disgorging foul Their devilish glut , chained thunderbolts and hail Of iron globes ; which , on the victor host Levelled , with such impetuous fury smote , That , whom they hit , none on their feet might stand , Though standing else as rocks , but down they fell By thousands , Angel on Arch - Angel rolled ; The sooner for their arms ; unarmed , they might Have easily , as Spirits , evaded swift By quick contraction or remove ; but now Foul dissipation followed , and forced rout ; Nor served it to relax their serried files .
Their arms away they threw , and to the hills ( For Earth hath this variety from Heaven Of pleasure situate in hill and dale ,) Light as the lightning glimpse they ran , they flew ; From their foundations loosening to and fro , They plucked the seated hills , with all their load , Rocks , waters , woods , and by the shaggy tops Up - lifting bore them in their hands : Amaze , Be sure , and terrour , seized the rebel host , When coming towards them so dread they saw The bottom of the mountains upward turned ; Till on those cursed engines ' triple - row They saw them whelmed , and all their confidence Under the weight of mountains buried deep ; Themselves invaded next , and on their heads Main promontories flung , which in the air Came shadowing , and oppressed whole legions armed ; Their armour helped their harm , crushed in and bruised Into their substance pent , which wrought them pain Implacable , and many a dolorous groan ; Long struggling underneath , ere they could wind Out of such prison , though Spirits of purest light , Purest at first , now gross by sinning grown .
war seemed a civil game To this uproar ; horrid confusion heaped Upon confusion rose : And now all Heaven Had gone to wrack , with ruin overspread ; Had not the Almighty Father , where he sits Shrined in his sanctuary of Heaven secure , Consulting on the sum of things , foreseen This tumult , and permitted all , advised : That his great purpose he might so fulfil , To honour his anointed Son avenged Upon his enemies , and to declare All power on him transferred : Whence to his Son , The Assessour of his throne , he thus began .
two days are past , Two days , as we compute the days of Heaven , Since Michael and his Powers went forth to tame These disobedient : Sore hath been their fight , As likeliest was , when two such foes met armed ; For to themselves I left them ; and thou knowest , Equal in their creation they were formed , Save what sin hath impaired ; which yet hath wrought Insensibly , for I suspend their doom ; Whence in perpetual fight they needs must last Endless , and no solution will be found : War wearied hath performed what war can do , And to disordered rage let loose the reins With mountains , as with weapons , armed ; which makes Wild work in Heaven , and dangerous to the main .
Into thee such virtue and grace Immense I have transfused , that all may know In Heaven and Hell thy power above compare ; And , this perverse commotion governed thus , To manifest thee worthiest to be Heir Of all things ; to be Heir , and to be King By sacred unction , thy deserved right .
Go then , Thou Mightiest , in thy Father ' s might ; Ascend my chariot , guide the rapid wheels That shake Heaven ' s basis , bring forth all my war , My bow and thunder , my almighty arms Gird on , and sword upon thy puissant thigh ; Pursue these sons of darkness , drive them out From all Heaven ' s bounds into the utter deep : There let them learn , as likes them , to despise God , and Messiah his anointed King .
Scepter and power , thy giving , I assume , And gladlier shall resign , when in the end Thou shalt be all in all , and I in thee For ever ; and in me all whom thou lovest : But whom thou hatest , I hate , and can put on Thy terrours , as I put thy mildness on , Image of thee in all things ; and shall soon , Armed with thy might , rid Heaven of these rebelled ; To their prepared ill mansion driven down , To chains of darkness , and the undying worm ; That from thy just obedience could revolt , Whom to obey is happiness entire .
So said , he , o ' er his scepter bowing , rose From the right hand of Glory where he sat ; And the third sacred morn began to shine , Dawning through Heaven .
He , in celestial panoply all armed Of radiant Urim , work divinely wrought , Ascended ; at his right hand Victory Sat eagle - winged ; beside him hung his bow And quiver with three - bolted thunder stored ; And from about him fierce effusion rolled Of smoke , and bickering flame , and sparkles dire : Attended with ten thousand thousand Saints , He onward came ; far off his coming shone ; And twenty thousand ( I their number heard ) Chariots of God , half on each hand , were seen ; He on the wings of Cherub rode sublime On the crystalline sky , in sapphire throned , Illustrious far and wide ; but by his own First seen : Them unexpected joy surprised , When the great ensign of Messiah blazed Aloft by Angels borne , his sign in Heaven ; Under whose conduct Michael soon reduced His army , circumfused on either wing , Under their Head imbodied all in one .
Before him Power Divine his way prepared ; At his command the uprooted hills retired Each to his place ; they heard his voice , and went Obsequious ; Heaven his wonted face renewed , And with fresh flowerets hill and valley smiled .
Stand still in bright array , ye Saints ; here stand , Ye Angels armed ; this day from battle rest : Faithful hath been your warfare , and of God Accepted , fearless in his righteous cause ; And as ye have received , so have ye done , Invincibly : But of this cursed crew The punishment to other hand belongs ; Vengeance is his , or whose he sole appoints : Number to this day ' s work is not ordained , Nor multitude ; stand only , and behold God ' s indignation on these godless poured By me ; not you , but me , they have despised , Yet envied ; against me is all their rage , Because the Father , to whom in Heaven s ' preme Kingdom , and power , and glory appertains , Hath honoured me , according to his will .
Yet half his strength he put not forth , but checked His thunder in mid volley ; for he meant Not to destroy , but root them out of Heaven : The overthrown he raised , and as a herd Of goats or timorous flock together thronged Drove them before him thunder - struck , pursued With terrours , and with furies , to the bounds And crystal wall of Heaven ; which , opening wide , Rolled inward , and a spacious gap disclosed Into the wasteful deep : The monstrous sight Struck them with horrour backward , but far worse Urged them behind : Headlong themselves they threw Down from the verge of Heaven ; eternal wrath Burnt after them to the bottomless pit .
Hell heard the unsufferable noise , Hell saw Heaven ruining from Heaven , and would have fled Affrighted ; but strict Fate had cast too deep Her dark foundations , and too fast had bound .
Disburdened Heaven rejoiced , and soon repaired Her mural breach , returning whence it rolled .
Sole victor , from the expulsion of his foes , Messiah his triumphal chariot turned : To meet him all his Saints , who silent stood Eye - witnesses of his almighty acts , With jubilee advanced ; and , as they went , Shaded with branching palm , each Order bright , Sung triumph , and him sung victorious King , Son , Heir , and Lord , to him dominion given , Worthiest to reign : He , celebrated , rode Triumphant through mid Heaven , into the courts And temple of his Mighty Father throned On high ; who into glory him received , Where now he sits at the right hand of bliss .
Thus , measuring things in Heaven by things on Earth , At thy request , and that thou mayest beware By what is past , to thee I have revealed What might have else to human race been hid ; The discord which befel , and war in Heaven Among the angelick Powers , and the deep fall Of those too high aspiring , who rebelled With Satan ; he who envies now thy state , Who now is plotting how he may seduce Thee also from obedience , that , with him Bereaved of happiness , thou mayest partake His punishment , eternal misery ; Which would be all his solace and revenge , As a despite done against the Most High , Thee once to gain companion of his woe .
Descend from Heaven , Urania , by that name If rightly thou art called , whose voice divine Following , above the Olympian hill I soar , Above the flight of Pegasean wing !
Up led by thee Into the Heaven of Heavens I have presumed , An earthly guest , and drawn empyreal air , Thy tempering : with like safety guided down Return me to my native element : Lest from this flying steed unreined , ( as once Bellerophon , though from a lower clime ,) Dismounted , on the Aleian field I fall , Erroneous there to wander , and forlorn .
Say , Goddess , what ensued when Raphael , The affable Arch - Angel , had forewarned Adam , by dire example , to beware Apostasy , by what befel in Heaven To those apostates ; lest the like befall In Paradise to Adam or his race , Charged not to touch the interdicted tree , If they transgress , and slight that sole command , So easily obeyed amid the choice Of all tastes else to please their appetite , Though wandering .
He , with his consorted Eve , The story heard attentive , and was filled With admiration and deep muse , to hear Of things so high and strange ; things , to their thought So unimaginable , as hate in Heaven , And war so near the peace of God in bliss , With such confusion : but the evil , soon Driven back , redounded as a flood on those From whom it sprung ; impossible to mix With blessedness .
Whence Adam soon repealed The doubts that in his heart arose : and now Led on , yet sinless , with desire to know What nearer might concern him , how this world Of Heaven and Earth conspicuous first began ; When , and whereof created ; for what cause ; What within Eden , or without , was done Before his memory ; as one whose drouth Yet scarce allayed still eyes the current stream , Whose liquid murmur heard new thirst excites , Proceeded thus to ask his heavenly guest .
But since thou hast vouchsafed Gently , for our instruction , to impart Things above earthly thought , which yet concerned Our knowing , as to highest wisdom seemed , Deign to descend now lower , and relate What may no less perhaps avail us known , How first began this Heaven which we behold Distant so high , with moving fires adorned Innumerable ; and this which yields or fills All space , the ambient air wide interfused Embracing round this floried Earth ; what cause Moved the Creator , in his holy rest Through all eternity , so late to build In Chaos ; and the work begun , how soon Absolved ; if unforbid thou mayest unfold What we , not to explore the secrets ask Of his eternal empire , but the more To magnify his works , the more we know .
And the great light of day yet wants to run Much of his race though steep ; suspense in Heaven , Held by thy voice , thy potent voice , he hears , And longer will delay to hear thee tell His generation , and the rising birth Of Nature from the unapparent Deep : Or if the star of evening and the moon Haste to thy audience , Night with her will bring , Silence ; and Sleep , listening to thee , will watch ; Or we can bid his absence , till thy song End , and dismiss thee ere the morning shine .
Yet what thou canst attain , which best may serve To glorify the Maker , and infer Thee also happier , shall not be withheld Thy hearing ; such commission from above I have received , to answer thy desire Of knowledge within bounds ; beyond , abstain To ask ; nor let thine own inventions hope Things not revealed , which the invisible King , Only Omniscient , hath suppressed in night ; To none communicable in Earth or Heaven : Enough is left besides to search and know .
Know then , that , after Lucifer from Heaven ( So call him , brighter once amidst the host Of Angels , than that star the stars among ,) Fell with his flaming legions through the deep Into his place , and the great Son returned Victorious with his Saints , the Omnipotent Eternal Father from his throne beheld Their multitude , and to his Son thus spake .
At least our envious Foe hath failed , who thought All like himself rebellious , by whose aid This inaccessible high strength , the seat Of Deity supreme , us dispossessed , He trusted to have seised , and into fraud Drew many , whom their place knows here no more : Yet far the greater part have kept , I see , Their station ; Heaven , yet populous , retains Number sufficient to possess her realms Though wide , and this high temple to frequent With ministeries due , and solemn rites : But , lest his heart exalt him in the harm Already done , to have dispeopled Heaven , My damage fondly deemed , I can repair That detriment , if such it be to lose Self - lost ; and in a moment will create Another world , out of one man a race Of men innumerable , there to dwell , Not here ; till , by degrees of merit raised , They open to themselves at length the way Up hither , under long obedience tried ; And Earth be changed to Heaven , and Heaven to Earth , One kingdom , joy and union without end .
Mean while inhabit lax , ye Powers of Heaven ; And thou my Word , begotten Son , by thee This I perform ; speak thou , and be it done !
My overshadowing Spirit and Might with thee I send along ; ride forth , and bid the Deep Within appointed bounds be Heaven and Earth ; Boundless the Deep , because I Am who fill Infinitude , nor vacuous the space .
Great triumph and rejoicing was in Heaven , When such was heard declared the Almighty ' s will ; Glory they sung to the Most High , good will To future men , and in their dwellings peace ; Glory to Him , whose just avenging ire Had driven out the ungodly from his sight And the habitations of the just ; to Him Glory and praise , whose wisdom had ordained Good out of evil to create ; instead Of Spirits malign , a better race to bring Into their vacant room , and thence diffuse His good to worlds and ages infinite .
About his chariot numberless were poured Cherub , and Seraph , Potentates , and Thrones , And Virtues , winged Spirits , and chariots winged From the armoury of God ; where stand of old Myriads , between two brazen mountains lodged Against a solemn day , harnessed at hand , Celestial equipage ; and now came forth Spontaneous , for within them Spirit lived , Attendant on their Lord : Heaven opened wide Her ever - during gates , harmonious sound On golden hinges moving , to let forth The King of Glory , in his powerful Word And Spirit , coming to create new worlds .
On heavenly ground they stood ; and from the shore They viewed the vast immeasurable abyss Outrageous as a sea , dark , wasteful , wild , Up from the bottom turned by furious winds And surging waves , as mountains , to assault Heaven ' s highth , and with the center mix the pole .
Thus God the Heaven created , thus the Earth , Matter unformed and void : Darkness profound Covered the abyss : but on the watery calm His brooding wings the Spirit of God outspread , And vital virtue infused , and vital warmth Throughout the fluid mass ; but downward purged The black tartareous cold infernal dregs , Adverse to life : then founded , then conglobed Like things to like ; the rest to several place Disparted , and between spun out the air ; And Earth self - balanced on her center hung .
Thus was the first day even and morn : Nor past uncelebrated , nor unsung By the celestial quires , when orient light Exhaling first from darkness they beheld ; Birth - day of Heaven and Earth ; with joy and shout The hollow universal orb they filled , And touched their golden harps , and hymning praised God and his works ; Creator him they sung , Both when first evening was , and when first morn .
Again , God said , Let there be firmament Amid the waters , and let it divide The waters from the waters ; and God made The firmament , expanse of liquid , pure , Transparent , elemental air , diffused In circuit to the uttermost convex Of this great round ; partition firm and sure , The waters underneath from those above Dividing : for as earth , so he the world Built on circumfluous waters calm , in wide Crystalline ocean , and the loud misrule Of Chaos far removed ; lest fierce extremes Contiguous might distemper the whole frame : And Heaven he named the Firmament : So even And morning chorus sung the second day .
The Earth was formed , but in the womb as yet Of waters , embryon immature involved , Appeared not : over all the face of Earth Main ocean flowed , not idle ; but , with warm Prolifick humour softening all her globe , Fermented the great mother to conceive , Satiate with genial moisture ; when God said , Be gathered now ye waters under Heaven Into one place , and let dry land appear .
He scarce had said , when the bare Earth , till then Desart and bare , unsightly , unadorned , Brought forth the tender grass , whose verdure clad Her universal face with pleasant green ; Then herbs of every leaf , that sudden flowered Opening their various colours , and made gay Her bosom , smelling sweet : and , these scarce blown , Forth flourished thick the clustering vine , forth crept The swelling gourd , up stood the corny reed Embattled in her field , and the humble shrub , And bush with frizzled hair implicit : Last Rose , as in dance , the stately trees , and spread Their branches hung with copious fruit , or gemmed Their blossoms : With high woods the hills were crowned ; With tufts the valleys , and each fountain side ; With borders long the rivers : that Earth now Seemed like to Heaven , a seat where Gods might dwell , Or wander with delight , and love to haunt Her sacred shades : though God had yet not rained Upon the Earth , and man to till the ground None was ; but from the Earth a dewy mist Went up , and watered all the ground , and each Plant of the field ; which , ere it was in the Earth , God made , and every herb , before it grew On the green stem : God saw that it was good : So even and morn recorded the third day .
Again the Almighty spake , Let there be lights High in the expanse of Heaven , to divide The day from night ; and let them be for signs , For seasons , and for days , and circling years ; And let them be for lights , as I ordain Their office in the firmament of Heaven , To give light on the Earth ; and it was so .
And God made two great lights , great for their use To Man , the greater to have rule by day , The less by night , altern ; and made the stars , And set them in the firmament of Heaven To illuminate the Earth , and rule the day In their vicissitude , and rule the night , And light from darkness to divide .
God saw , Surveying his great work , that it was good : For of celestial bodies first the sun A mighty sphere he framed , unlightsome first , Though of ethereal mould : then formed the moon Globose , and every magnitude of stars , And sowed with stars the Heaven , thick as a field : Of light by far the greater part he took , Transplanted from her cloudy shrine , and placed In the sun ' s orb , made porous to receive And drink the liquid light ; firm to retain Her gathered beams , great palace now of light .
Hither , as to their fountain , other stars Repairing , in their golden urns draw light , And hence the morning - planet gilds her horns ; By tincture or reflection they augment Their small peculiar , though from human sight So far remote , with diminution seen , First in his east the glorious lamp was seen , Regent of day , and all the horizon round Invested with bright rays , jocund to run His longitude through Heaven ' s high road ; the gray Dawn , and the Pleiades , before him danced , Shedding sweet influence : Less bright the moon , But opposite in levelled west was set , His mirrour , with full face borrowing her light From him ; for other light she needed none In that aspect , and still that distance keeps Till night ; then in the east her turn she shines , Revolved on Heaven ' s great axle , and her reign With thousand lesser lights dividual holds , With thousand thousand stars , that then appeared Spangling the hemisphere : Then first adorned With their bright luminaries that set and rose , Glad evening and glad morn crowned the fourth day .
And God said , Let the waters generate Reptile with spawn abundant , living soul : And let fowl fly above the Earth , with wings Displayed on the open firmament of Heaven .
Now Heaven in all her glory shone , and rolled Her motions , as the great first Mover ' s hand First wheeled their course : Earth in her rich attire Consummate lovely smiled ; air , water , earth , By fowl , fish , beast , was flown , was swum , was walked , Frequent ; and of the sixth day yet remained : There wanted yet the master - work , the end Of all yet done ; a creature , who , not prone And brute as other creatures , but endued With sanctity of reason , might erect His stature , and upright with front serene Govern the rest , self - knowing ; and from thence Magnanimous to correspond with Heaven , But grateful to acknowledge whence his good Descends , thither with heart , and voice , and eyes Directed in devotion , to adore And worship God Supreme , who made him chief Of all his works : therefore the Omnipotent Eternal Father ( for where is not he Present ?)
Here finished he , and all that he had made Viewed , and behold all was entirely good ; So even and morn accomplished the sixth day : Yet not till the Creator from his work Desisting , though unwearied , up returned , Up to the Heaven of Heavens , his high abode ; Thence to behold this new created world , The addition of his empire , how it showed In prospect from his throne , how good , how fair , Answering his great idea .
So sung The glorious train ascending : He through Heaven , That opened wide her blazing portals , led To God ' s eternal house direct the way ; A broad and ample road , whose dust is gold And pavement stars , as stars to thee appear , Seen in the galaxy , that milky way , Which nightly , as a circling zone , thou seest Powdered with stars .
And now on Earth the seventh Evening arose in Eden , for the sun Was set , and twilight from the east came on , Forerunning night ; when at the holy mount Of Heaven ' s high - seated top , the imperial throne Of Godhead , fixed for ever firm and sure , The Filial Power arrived , and sat him down With his great Father ; for he also went Invisible , yet staid , ( such privilege Hath Omnipresence ) and the work ordained , Author and End of all things ; and , from work Now resting , blessed and hallowed the seventh day , As resting on that day from all his work , But not in silence holy kept : the harp Had work and rested not ; the solemn pipe , And dulcimer , all organs of sweet stop , All sounds on fret by string or golden wire , Tempered soft tunings , intermixed with voice Choral or unison : of incense clouds , Fuming from golden censers , hid the mount .
Witness this new - made world , another Heaven From Heaven - gate not far , founded in view On the clear hyaline , the glassy sea ; Of amplitude almost immense , with stars Numerous , and every star perhaps a world Of destined habitation ; but thou knowest Their seasons : among these the seat of Men , Earth , with her nether ocean circumfused , Their pleasant dwelling - place .
When I behold this goodly frame , this world , Of Heaven and Earth consisting ; and compute Their magnitudes ; this Earth , a spot , a grain , An atom , with the firmament compared And all her numbered stars , that seem to roll Spaces incomprehensible , ( for such Their distance argues , and their swift return Diurnal ,) merely to officiate light Round this opacous Earth , this punctual spot , One day and night ; in all her vast survey Useless besides ; reasoning I oft admire , How Nature wise and frugal could commit Such disproportions , with superfluous hand So many nobler bodies to create , Greater so manifold , to this one use , For aught appears , and on their orbs impose Such restless revolution day by day Repeated ; while the sedentary Earth , That better might with far less compass move , Served by more noble than herself , attains Her end without least motion , and receives , As tribute , such a sumless journey brought Of incorporeal speed , her warmth and light ; Speed , to describe whose swiftness number fails .
To ask or search , I blame thee not ; for Heaven Is as the book of God before thee set , Wherein to read his wonderous works , and learn His seasons , hours , or days , or months , or years : This to attain , whether Heaven move or Earth , Imports not , if thou reckon right ; the rest From Man or Angel the great Architect Did wisely to conceal , and not divulge His secrets to be scanned by them who ought Rather admire ; or , if they list to try Conjecture , he his fabrick of the Heavens Hath left to their disputes , perhaps to move His laughter at their quaint opinions wide Hereafter ; when they come to model Heaven And calculate the stars , how they will wield The mighty frame ; how build , unbuild , contrive To save appearances ; how gird the sphere With centrick and eccentrick scribbled o ' er , Cycle and epicycle , orb in orb : Already by thy reasoning this I guess , Who art to lead thy offspring , and supposest That bodies bright and greater should not serve The less not bright , nor Heaven such journeys run , Earth sitting still , when she alone receives The benefit : Consider first , that great Or bright infers not excellence : the Earth Though , in comparison of Heaven , so small , Nor glistering , may of solid good contain More plenty than the sun that barren shines ; Whose virtue on itself works no effect , But in the fruitful Earth ; there first received , His beams , unactive else , their vigour find .
And for the Heaven ' s wide circuit , let it speak The Maker ' s high magnificence , who built So spacious , and his line stretched out so far ; That Man may know he dwells not in his own ; An edifice too large for him to fill , Lodged in a small partition ; and the rest Ordained for uses to his Lord best known .
The swiftness of those circles attribute , Though numberless , to his Omnipotence , That to corporeal substances could add Speed almost spiritual : Me thou thinkest not slow , Who since the morning - hour set out from Heaven Where God resides , and ere mid - day arrived In Eden ; distance inexpressible By numbers that have name .
God , to remove his ways from human sense , Placed Heaven from Earth so far , that earthly sight , If it presume , might err in things too high , And no advantage gain .
But whether thus these things , or whether not ; But whether the sun , predominant in Heaven , Rise on the earth ; or earth rise on the sun ; He from the east his flaming road begin ; Or she from west her silent course advance , With inoffensive pace that spinning sleeps On her soft axle , while she paces even , And bears thee soft with the smooth hair along ; Sollicit not thy thoughts with matters hid ; Leave them to God above ; him serve , and fear !
Of other creatures , as him pleases best , Wherever placed , let him dispose ; joy thou In what he gives to thee , this Paradise And thy fair Eve ; Heaven is for thee too high To know what passes there ; be lowly wise : Think only what concerns thee , and thy being ; Dream not of other worlds , what creatures there Live , in what state , condition , or degree ; Contented that thus far hath been revealed Not of Earth only , but of highest Heaven .
How fully hast thou satisfied me , pure Intelligence of Heaven , Angel serene !
were it not in hope of thy reply : For , while I sit with thee , I seem in Heaven ; And sweeter thy discourse is to my ear Than fruits of palm - tree pleasantest to thirst And hunger both , from labour , at the hour Of sweet repast ; they satiate , and soon fill , Though pleasant ; but thy words , with grace divine Imbued , bring to their sweetness no satiety .
Nor are thy lips ungraceful , Sire of men , Nor tongue ineloquent ; for God on thee Abundantly his gifts hath also poured Inward and outward both , his image fair : Speaking , or mute , all comeliness and grace Attends thee ; and each word , each motion , forms ; Nor less think we in Heaven of thee on Earth Than of our fellow - servant , and inquire Gladly into the ways of God with Man : For God , we see , hath honoured thee , and set On Man his equal love : Say therefore on ; For I that day was absent , as befel , Bound on a voyage uncouth and obscure , Far on excursion toward the gates of Hell ; Squared in full legion ( such command we had ) To see that none thence issued forth a spy , Or enemy , while God was in his work ; Lest he , incensed at such eruption bold , Destruction with creation might have mixed .
Straight toward Heaven my wondering eyes I turned , And gazed a while the ample sky ; till , raised By quick instinctive motion , up I sprung , As thitherward endeavouring , and upright Stood on my feet : about me round I saw Hill , dale , and shady woods , and sunny plains , And liquid lapse of murmuring streams ; by these , Creatures that lived and moved , and walked , or flew ; Birds on the branches warbling ; all things smiled ; With fragrance and with joy my heart o ' erflowed .
She disappeared , and left me dark ; I waked To find her , or for ever to deplore Her loss , and other pleasures all abjure : When out of hope , behold her , not far off , Such as I saw her in my dream , adorned With what all Earth or Heaven could bestow To make her amiable : On she came , Led by her heavenly Maker , though unseen , And guided by his voice ; nor uninformed Of nuptial sanctity , and marriage rites : Grace was in all her steps , Heaven in her eye , In every gesture dignity and love .
To the nuptial bower I led her blushing like the morn : All Heaven , And happy constellations , on that hour Shed their selectest influence ; the Earth Gave sign of gratulation , and each hill ; Joyous the birds ; fresh gales and gentle airs Whispered it to the woods , and from their wings Flung rose , flung odours from the spicy shrub , Disporting , till the amorous bird of night Sung spousal , and bid haste the evening - star On his hill top , to light the bridal lamp .
To love , thou blamest me not ; for Love , thou sayest , Leads up to Heaven , is both the way and guide ; Bear with me then , if lawful what I ask : Love not the heavenly Spirits , and how their love Express they ?
So parted they ; the Angel up to Heaven From the thick shade , and Adam to his bower .
I now must change Those notes to tragick ; foul distrust , and breach Disloyal on the part of Man , revolt , And disobedience : on the part of Heaven Now alienated , distance and distaste , Anger and just rebuke , and judgement given , That brought into this world a world of woe , Sin and her shadow Death , and Misery Death ' s harbinger : Sad talk ! yet argument Not less but more heroick than the wrath Of stern Achilles on his foe pursued Thrice fugitive about Troy wall ; or rage Of Turnus for Lavinia disespous ' d ; Or Neptune ' s ire , or Juno ' s , that so long Perplexed the Greek , and Cytherea ' s son :
O Earth , how like to Heaven , if not preferred For what God , after better , worse would build ?
Terrestrial Heaven , danced round by other Heavens That shine , yet bear their bright officious lamps , Light above light , for thee alone , as seems , In thee concentring all their precious beams Of sacred influence !
As God in Heaven Is center , yet extends to all ; so thou , Centring , receivest from all those orbs : in thee , Not in themselves , all their known virtue appears Productive in herb , plant , and nobler birth Of creatures animate with gradual life Of growth , sense , reason , all summed up in Man .
But I in none of these Find place or refuge ; and the more I see Pleasures about me , so much more I feel Torment within me , as from the hateful siege Of contraries : all good to me becomes Bane , and in Heaven much worse would be my state .
But neither here seek I , no nor in Heaven To dwell , unless by mastering Heaven ' s Supreme ; Nor hope to be myself less miserable By what I seek , but others to make such As I , though thereby worse to me redound : For only in destroying I find ease To my relentless thoughts ; and , him destroyed , Or won to what may work his utter loss , For whom all this was made , all this will soon Follow , as to him linked in weal or woe ; In woe then ; that destruction wide may range : To me shall be the glory sole among The infernal Powers , in one day to have marred What he , Almighty styled , six nights and days Continued making ; and who knows how long Before had been contriving ?
Revenge , at first though sweet , Bitter ere long , back on itself recoils : Let it ; I reck not , so it light well aimed , Since higher I fall short , on him who next Provokes my envy , this new favourite Of Heaven , this man of clay , son of despite , Whom , us the more to spite , his Maker raised From dust : Spite then with spite is best repaid .
Offspring of Heaven and Earth , and all Earth ' s Lord !
who rather double honour gain From his surmise proved false ; find peace within , Favour from Heaven , our witness , from the event .
As one who long in populous city pent , Where houses thick and sewers annoy the air , Forth issuing on a summer ' s morn , to breathe Among the pleasant villages and farms Adjoined , from each thing met conceives delight ; The smell of grain , or tedded grass , or kine , Or dairy , each rural sight , each rural sound ; If chance , with nymph - like step , fair virgin pass , What pleasing seemed , for her now pleases more ; She most , and in her look sums all delight : Such pleasure took the Serpent to behold This flowery plat , the sweet recess of Eve Thus early , thus alone : Her heavenly form Angelick , but more soft , and feminine , Her graceful innocence , her every air Of gesture , or least action , overawed His malice , and with rapine sweet bereaved His fierceness of the fierce intent it brought : That space the Evil - one abstracted stood From his own evil , and for the time remained Stupidly good ; of enmity disarmed , Of guile , of hate , of envy , of revenge : But the hot Hell that always in him burns , Though in mid Heaven , soon ended his delight , And tortures him now more , the more he sees Of pleasure , not for him ordained : then soon Fierce hate he recollects , and all his thoughts Of mischief , gratulating , thus excites .
exempt from wound , I not ; so much hath Hell debased , and pain Enfeebled me , to what I was in Heaven .
much less arm Thy looks , the Heaven of mildness , with disdain , Displeased that I approach thee thus , and gaze Insatiate ; I thus single ; nor have feared Thy awful brow , more awful thus retired .
Thenceforth to speculations high or deep I turned my thoughts , and with capacious mind Considered all things visible in Heaven , Or Earth , or Middle ; all things fair and good : But all that fair and good in thy divine Semblance , and in thy beauty ' s heavenly ray , United I beheld ; no fair to thine Equivalent or second !
And I perhaps am secret : Heaven is high , High , and remote to see from thence distinct Each thing on Earth ; and other care perhaps May have diverted from continual watch Our great Forbidder , safe with all his spies About him .
Mean while the heinous and despiteful act Of Satan , done in Paradise ; and how He , in the serpent , had perverted Eve , Her husband she , to taste the fatal fruit , Was known in Heaven ; for what can ' scape the eye Of God all - seeing , or deceive his heart Omniscient ?
Up into Heaven from Paradise in haste The angelick guards ascended , mute , and sad , For Man ; for of his state by this they knew , Much wondering how the subtle Fiend had stolen Entrance unseen .
Soon as the unwelcome news From Earth arrived at Heaven - gate , displeased All were who heard ; dim sadness did not spare That time celestial visages , yet , mixed With pity , violated not their bliss .
To thee I have transferred All judgement , whether in Heaven , or Earth , or Hell .
Father Eternal , thine is to decree ; Mine , both in Heaven and Earth , to do thy will Supreme ; that thou in me , thy Son beloved , Mayest ever rest well pleased .
Thus saying , from his radiant seat he rose Of high collateral glory : Him Thrones , and Powers , Princedoms , and Dominations ministrant , Accompanied to Heaven - gate ; from whence Eden , and all the coast , in prospect lay .
O Heaven !
So spake this oracle , then verified When Jesus , Son of Mary , second Eve , Saw Satan fall , like lightning , down from Heaven , Prince of the air ; then , rising from his grave Spoiled Principalities and Powers , triumphed In open show ; and , with ascension bright , Captivity led captive through the air , The realm itself of Satan , long usurped ; Whom he shall tread at last under our feet ; Even he , who now foretold his fatal bruise ; And to the Woman thus his sentence turned .
And now in little space The confines met of empyrean Heaven , And of this World ; and , on the left hand , Hell With long reach interposed ; three several ways In sight , to each of these three places led .
Thine now is all this world ; thy virtue hath won What thy hands builded not ; thy wisdom gained With odds what war hath lost , and fully avenged Our foil in Heaven ; here thou shalt monarch reign , There didst not ; there let him still victor sway , As battle hath adjudged ; from this new world Retiring , by his own doom alienated ; And henceforth monarchy with thee divide Of all things , parted by the empyreal bounds , His quadrature , from thy orbicular world ; Or try thee now more dangerous to his throne .
Fair Daughter , and thou Son and Grandchild both ; High proof ye now have given to be the race Of Satan ( for I glory in the name , Antagonist of Heaven ' s Almighty King ,) Amply have merited of me , of all The infernal empire , that so near Heaven ' s door Triumphal with triumphal act have met , Mine , with this glorious work ; and made one realm , Hell and this world , one realm , one continent Of easy thorough - fare .
As when the Tartar from his Russian foe , By Astracan , over the snowy plains , Retires ; or Bactrin Sophi , from the horns Of Turkish crescent , leaves all waste beyond The realm of Aladule , in his retreat To Tauris or Casbeen : So these , the late Heaven - banished host , left desart utmost Hell Many a dark league , reduced in careful watch Round their metropolis ; and now expecting Each hour their great adventurer , from the search Of foreign worlds : He through the midst unmarked , In show plebeian Angel militant Of lowest order , passed ; and from the door Of that Plutonian hall , invisible Ascended his high throne ; which , under state Of richest texture spread , at the upper end Was placed in regal lustre .
Thrones , Dominations , Princedoms , Virtues , Powers ; For in possession such , not only of right , I call ye , and declare ye now ; returned Successful beyond hope , to lead ye forth Triumphant out of this infernal pit Abominable , accursed , the house of woe , And dungeon of our tyrant : Now possess , As Lords , a spacious world , to our native Heaven Little inferiour , by my adventure hard With peril great achieved .
Long were to tell What I have done ; what suffered ; with what pain Voyaged th ' unreal , vast , unbounded deep Of horrible confusion ; over which By Sin and Death a broad way now is paved , To expedite your glorious march ; but I Toiled out my uncouth passage , forced to ride The untractable abyss , plunged in the womb Of unoriginal Night and Chaos wild ; That , jealous of their secrets , fiercely opposed My journey strange , with clamorous uproar Protesting Fate supreme ; thence how I found The new created world , which fame in Heaven Long had foretold , a fabrick wonderful Of absolute perfection !
So having said , a while he stood , expecting Their universal shout , and high applause , To fill his ear ; when , contrary , he hears On all sides , from innumerable tongues , A dismal universal hiss , the sound Of publick scorn ; he wondered , but not long Had leisure , wondering at himself now more , His visage drawn he felt to sharp and spare ; His arms clung to his ribs ; his legs entwining Each other , till supplanted down he fell A monstrous serpent on his belly prone , Reluctant , but in vain ; a greater power Now ruled him , punished in the shape he sinned , According to his doom : he would have spoke , But hiss for hiss returned with forked tongue To forked tongue ; for now were all transformed Alike , to serpents all , as accessories To his bold riot : Dreadful was the din Of hissing through the hall , thick swarming now With complicated monsters head and tail , Scorpion , and Asp , and Amphisbaena dire , Cerastes horned , Hydrus , and Elops drear , And Dipsas ; ( not so thick swarmed once the soil Bedropt with blood of Gorgon , or the isle Ophiusa ,) but still greatest he the midst , Now Dragon grown , larger than whom the sun Ingendered in the Pythian vale or slime , Huge Python , and his power no less he seemed Above the rest still to retain ; they all Him followed , issuing forth to the open field , Where all yet left of that revolted rout , Heaven - fallen , in station stood or just array ; Sublime with expectation when to see In triumph issuing forth their glorious Chief ; They saw , but other sight instead !
To me , who with eternal famine pine , Alike is Hell , or Paradise , or Heaven ; There best , where most with ravine I may meet ; Which here , though plenteous , all too little seems To stuff this maw , this vast unhide - bound corps .
Then Heaven and Earth renewed shall be made pure To sanctity , that shall receive no stain : Till then , the curse pronounced on both precedes .
Next , to the Son , Destined Restorer of mankind , by whom New Heaven and Earth shall to the ages rise , Or down from Heaven descend .-- Such was their song ; While the Creator , calling forth by name His mighty Angels , gave them several charge , As sorted best with present things .
why did God , Creator wise , that peopled highest Heaven With Spirits masculine , create at last This novelty on earth , this fair defect Of nature , and not fill the world at once With Men , as Angels , without feminine ; Or find some other way to generate Mankind ?
witness Heaven What love sincere , and reverence in my heart I bear thee , and unweeting have offended , Unhappily deceived !
Both have sinned ; but thou Against God only ; I against God and thee ; And to the place of judgement will return , There with my cries importune Heaven ; that all The sentence , from thy head removed , may light On me , sole cause to thee of all this woe ; Me , me only , just object of his ire !
Thus they , in lowliest plight , repentant stood Praying ; for from the mercy - seat above Prevenient grace descending had removed The stony from their hearts , and made new flesh Regenerate grow instead ; that sighs now breathed Unutterable ; which the Spirit of prayer Inspired , and winged for Heaven with speedier flight Than loudest oratory : Yet their port Not of mean suitors ; nor important less Seemed their petition , than when the ancient pair In fables old , less ancient yet than these , Deucalion and chaste Pyrrha , to restore The race of mankind drowned , before the shrine Of Themis stood devout .
To Heaven their prayers Flew up , nor missed the way , by envious winds Blown vagabond or frustrate : in they passed Dimensionless through heavenly doors ; then clad With incense , where the golden altar fumed , By their great intercessour , came in sight Before the Father ' s throne : them the glad Son Presenting , thus to intercede began .
I , at first , with two fair gifts Created him endowed ; with happiness , And immortality : that fondly lost , This other served but to eternize woe ; Till I provided death : so death becomes His final remedy ; and , after life , Tried in sharp tribulation , and refined By faith and faithful works , to second life , Waked in the renovation of the just , Resigns him up with Heaven and Earth renewed .
But let us call to synod all the Blest , Through Heaven ' s wide bounds : from them I will not hide My judgements ; how with mankind I proceed , As how with peccant Angels late they saw , And in their state , though firm , stood more confirmed .
Eve , easily my faith admit , that all The good which we enjoy from Heaven descends ; But , that from us aught should ascend to Heaven So prevalent as to concern the mind Of God high - blest , or to incline his will , Hard to belief may seem ; yet this will prayer Or one short sigh of human breath , upborne Even to the seat of God .
O Eve , some further change awaits us nigh , Which Heaven , by these mute signs in Nature , shows Forerunners of his purpose ; or to warn Us , haply too secure , of our discharge From penalty , because from death released Some days : how long , and what till then our life , Who knows ?
Adam , Heaven ' s high behest no preface needs : Sufficient that thy prayers are heard ; and Death , Then due by sentence when thou didst transgress , Defeated of his seisure many days Given thee of grace ; wherein thou mayest repent , And one bad act with many deeds well done Mayest cover : Well may then thy Lord , appeased , Redeem thee quite from Death ' s rapacious claim ; But longer in this Paradise to dwell Permits not : to remove thee I am come , And send thee from the garden forth to till The ground whence thou wast taken , fitter soil .
Adam , thou knowest Heaven his , and all the Earth ; Not this rock only ; his Omnipresence fills Land , sea , and air , and every kind that lives , Fomented by his virtual power and warmed : All the earth he gave thee to possess and rule , No despicable gift ; surmise not then His presence to these narrow bounds confined Of Paradise , or Eden : this had been Perhaps thy capital seat , from whence had spread All generations ; and had hither come From all the ends of the earth , to celebrate And reverence thee , their great progenitor .
Ascend , I follow thee , safe Guide , the path Thou leadest me ; and to the hand of Heaven submit , However chastening ; to the evil turn My obvious breast ; arming to overcome By suffering , and earn rest from labour won , If so I may attain .
His eyes he opened , and beheld a field , Part arable and tilth , whereon were sheaves New reaped ; the other part sheep - walks and folds ; I ' the midst an altar as the land - mark stood , Rustick , of grassy sord ; thither anon A sweaty reaper from his tillage brought First fruits , the green ear , and the yellow sheaf , Unculled , as came to hand ; a shepherd next , More meek , came with the firstlings of his flock , Choicest and best ; then , sacrificing , laid The inwards and their fat , with incense strowed , On the cleft wood , and all due rights performed : His offering soon propitious fire from Heaven Consumed with nimble glance , and grateful steam ; The other ' s not , for his was not sincere ; Whereat he inly raged , and , as they talked , Smote him into the midriff with a stone That beat out life ; he fell ; and , deadly pale , Groaned out his soul with gushing blood effused .
These two are brethren , Adam , and to come Out of thy loins ; the unjust the just hath slain , For envy that his brother ' s offering found From Heaven acceptance ; but the bloody fact Will be avenged ; and the other ' s faith , approved , Lose no reward ; though here thou see him die , Rolling in dust and gore .
Nor love thy life , nor hate ; but what thou livest Live well ; how long , or short , permit to Heaven : And now prepare thee for another sight .
who thus deal death Inhumanly to men , and multiply Ten thousandfold the sin of him who slew His brother : for of whom such massacre Make they , but of their brethren ; men of men But who was that just man , whom had not Heaven Rescued , had in his righteousness been lost ?
Mean while the south - wind rose , and , with black wings Wide - hovering , all the clouds together drove From under Heaven ; the hills to their supply Vapour , and exhalation dusk and moist , Sent up amain ; and now the thickened sky Like a dark cieling stood ; down rushed the rain Impetuous ; and continued , till the earth No more was seen : the floating vessel swum Uplifted , and secure with beaked prow Rode tilting o ' er the waves ; all dwellings else Flood overwhelmed , and them with all their pomp Deep under water rolled ; sea covered sea , Sea without shore ; and in their palaces , Where luxury late reigned , sea - monsters whelped And stabled ; of mankind , so numerous late , All left , in one small bottom swum imbarked .
No sooner he , with them of man and beast Select for life , shall in the ark be lodged , And sheltered round ; but all the cataracts Of Heaven set open on the Earth shall pour Rain , day and night ; all fountains of the deep , Broke up , shall heave the ocean to usurp Beyond all bounds ; till inundation rise Above the highest hills : Then shall this mount Of Paradise by might of waves be moved Out of his place , pushed by the horned flood , With all his verdure spoiled , and trees adrift , Down the great river to the opening gulf , And there take root an island salt and bare , The haunt of seals , and orcs , and sea - mews ' clang : To teach thee that God attributes to place No sanctity , if none be thither brought By men who there frequent , or therein dwell .
He looked , and saw the ark hull on the flood , Which now abated ; for the clouds were fled , Driven by a keen north - wind , that , blowing dry , Wrinkled the face of deluge , as decayed ; And the clear sun on his wide watery glass Gazed hot , and of the fresh wave largely drew , As after thirst ; which made their flowing shrink From standing lake to tripping ebb , that stole With soft foot towards the deep ; who now had stopt His sluces , as the Heaven his windows shut .
Forthwith from out the ark a raven flies , And after him , the surer messenger , A dove sent forth once and again to spy Green tree or ground , whereon his foot may light : The second time returning , in his bill An olive - leaf he brings , pacifick sign : Anon dry ground appears , and from his ark The ancient sire descends , with all his train ; Then with uplifted hands , and eyes devout , Grateful to Heaven , over his head beholds A dewy cloud , and in the cloud a bow Conspicuous with three lifted colours gay , Betokening peace from God , and covenant new .
But say , what mean those coloured streaks in Heaven Distended , as the brow of God appeased ?
Dextrously thou aimest ; So willingly doth God remit his ire , Though late repenting him of Man depraved ; Grieved at his heart , when looking down he saw The whole earth filled with violence , and all flesh Corrupting each their way ; yet , those removed , Such grace shall one just man find in his sight , That he relents , not to blot out mankind ; And makes a covenant never to destroy The earth again by flood ; nor let the sea Surpass his bounds ; nor rain to drown the world , With man therein or beast ; but , when he brings Over the earth a cloud , will therein set His triple - coloured bow , whereon to look , And call to mind his covenant : Day and night , Seed - time and harvest , heat and hoary frost , Shall hold their course ; till fire purge all things new , Both Heaven and Earth , wherein the just shall dwell .
This second source of Men , while yet but few , And while the dread of judgement past remains Fresh in their minds , fearing the Deity , With some regard to what is just and right Shall lead their lives , and multiply apace ; Labouring the soil , and reaping plenteous crop , Corn , wine , and oil ; and , from the herd or flock , Oft sacrificing bullock , lamb , or kid , With large wine - offerings poured , and sacred feast , Shall spend their days in joy unblamed ; and dwell Long time in peace , by families and tribes , Under paternal rule : till one shall rise Of proud ambitious heart ; who , not content With fair equality , fraternal state , Will arrogate dominion undeserved Over his brethren , and quite dispossess Concord and law of nature from the earth ; Hunting ( and men not beasts shall be his game ) With war , and hostile snare , such as refuse Subjection to his empire tyrannous : A mighty hunter thence he shall be styled Before the Lord ; as in despite of Heaven , Or from Heaven , claiming second sovranty ; And from rebellion shall derive his name , Though of rebellion others he accuse .
He with a crew , whom like ambition joins With him or under him to tyrannize , Marching from Eden towards the west , shall find The plain , wherein a black bituminous gurge Boils out from under ground , the mouth of Hell : Of brick , and of that stuff , they cast to build A city and tower , whose top may reach to Heaven ; And get themselves a name ; lest , far dispersed In foreign lands , their memory be lost ; Regardless whether good or evil fame .
But God , who oft descends to visit men Unseen , and through their habitations walks To mark their doings , them beholding soon , Comes down to see their city , ere the tower Obstruct Heaven - towers , and in derision sets Upon their tongues a various spirit , to rase Quite out their native language ; and , instead , To sow a jangling noise of words unknown : Forthwith a hideous gabble rises loud , Among the builders ; each to other calls Not understood ; till hoarse , and all in rage , As mocked they storm : great laughter was in Heaven , And looking down , to see the hubbub strange , And hear the din : Thus was the building left Ridiculous , and the work Confusion named .
Thus , laws and rites Established , such delight hath God in Men Obedient to his will , that he vouchsafes Among them to set up his tabernacle ; The Holy One with mortal Men to dwell : By his prescript a sanctuary is framed Of cedar , overlaid with gold ; therein An ark , and in the ark his testimony , The records of his covenant ; over these A mercy - seat of gold , between the wings Of two bright Cherubim ; before him burn Seven lamps as in a zodiack representing The heavenly fires ; over the tent a cloud Shall rest by day , a fiery gleam by night ; Save when they journey , and at length they come , Conducted by his Angel , to the land Promised to Abraham and his seed :-- The rest Were long to tell ; how many battles fought How many kings destroyed ; and kingdoms won ; Or how the sun shall in mid Heaven stand still A day entire , and night ' s due course adjourn , Man ' s voice commanding , ' Sun , in Gibeon stand , ' And thou moon in the vale of Aialon , ' Till Israel overcome !
O sent from Heaven , Enlightener of my darkness , gracious things Thou hast revealed ; those chiefly , which concern Just Abraham and his seed : now first I find Mine eyes true - opening , and my heart much eased ; Erewhile perplexed with thoughts , what would become Of me and all mankind : But now I see His day , in whom all nations shall be blest ; Favour unmerited by me , who sought Forbidden knowledge by forbidden means .
There in captivity he lets them dwell The space of seventy years ; then brings them back , Remembering mercy , and his covenant sworn To David , stablished as the days of Heaven .
Returned from Babylon by leave of kings Their lords , whom God disposed , the house of God They first re - edify ; and for a while In mean estate live moderate ; till , grown In wealth and multitude , factious they grow ; But first among the priests dissention springs , Men who attend the altar , and should most Endeavour peace : their strife pollution brings Upon the temple itself : at last they seise The scepter , and regard not David ' s sons ; Then lose it to a stranger , that the true Anointed King Messiah might be born Barred of his right ; yet at his birth a star , Unseen before in Heaven , proclaims him come ; And guides the eastern sages , who inquire His place , to offer incense , myrrh , and gold : His place of birth a solemn Angel tells To simple shepherds , keeping watch by night ; They gladly thither haste , and by a quire Of squadroned Angels hear his carol sung .
now clear I understand What oft my steadiest thoughts have searched in vain ; Why our great Expectation should be called The seed of Woman : Virgin Mother , hail , High in the love of Heaven ; yet from my loins Thou shalt proceed , and from thy womb the Son Of God Most High : so God with Man unites !
Dream not of their fight , As of a duel , or the local wounds Of head or heel : Not therefore joins the Son Manhood to Godhead , with more strength to foil Thy enemy ; nor so is overcome Satan , whose fall from Heaven , a deadlier bruise , Disabled , not to give thee thy death ' s wound : Which he , who comes thy Saviour , shall recure , Not by destroying Satan , but his works In thee , and in thy seed : Nor can this be , But by fulfilling that which thou didst want , Obedience to the law of God , imposed On penalty of death , and suffering death ; The penalty to thy transgression due , And due to theirs which out of thine will grow : So only can high Justice rest appaid .
Then to the Heaven of Heavens he shall ascend With victory , triumphing through the air Over his foes and thine ; there shall surprise The Serpent , prince of air , and drag in chains Through all his realm , and there confounded leave ; Then enter into glory , and resume His seat at God ' s right hand , exalted high Above all names in Heaven ; and thence shall come , When this world ' s dissolution shall be ripe , With glory and power to judge both quick and dead ; To judge the unfaithful dead , but to reward His faithful , and receive them into bliss , Whether in Heaven or Earth ; for then the Earth Shall all be Paradise , far happier place Than this of Eden , and far happier days .
But say , if our Deliverer up to Heaven Must re - ascend , what will betide the few His faithful , left among the unfaithful herd , The enemies of truth ?
Be sure they will , said the Angel ; but from Heaven He to his own a Comforter will send , The promise of the Father , who shall dwell His Spirit within them ; and the law of faith , Working through love , upon their hearts shall write , To guide them in all truth ; and also arm With spiritual armour , able to resist Satan ' s assaults , and quench his fiery darts ; What man can do against them , not afraid , Though to the death ; against such cruelties With inward consolations recompensed , And oft supported so as shall amaze Their proudest persecutors : For the Spirit , Poured first on his Apostles , whom he sends To evangelize the nations , then on all Baptized , shall them with wonderous gifts endue To speak all tongues , and do all miracles , As did their Lord before them .
Thus they win Great numbers of each nation to receive With joy the tidings brought from Heaven : At length Their ministry performed , and race well run , Their doctrine and their story written left , They die ; but in their room , as they forewarn , Wolves shall succeed for teachers , grievous wolves , Who all the sacred mysteries of Heaven To their own vile advantages shall turn Of lucre and ambition ; and the truth With superstitions and traditions taint , Left only in those written records pure , Though not but by the Spirit understood .
yet many will presume : Whence heavy persecution shall arise On all , who in the worship persevere Of spirit and truth ; the rest , far greater part , Will deem in outward rites and specious forms Religion satisfied ; Truth shall retire Bestuck with slanderous darts , and works of faith Rarely be found : So shall the world go on , To good malignant , to bad men benign ; Under her own weight groaning ; till the day Appear of respiration to the just , And vengeance to the wicked , at return Of him so lately promised to thy aid , The Woman ' s Seed ; obscurely then foretold , Now ampler known thy Saviour and thy Lord ; Last , in the clouds , from Heaven to be revealed In glory of the Father , to dissolve Satan with his perverted world ; then raise From the conflagrant mass , purged and refined , New Heavens , new Earth , ages of endless date , Founded in righteousness , and peace , and love ; To bring forth fruits , joy and eternal bliss .
This having learned , thou hast attained the sum Of wisdom ; hope no higher , though all the stars Thou knewest by name , and all the ethereal powers , All secrets of the deep , all Nature ' s works , Or works of God in Heaven , air , earth , or sea , And all the riches of this world enjoyedst , And all the rule , one empire ; only add Deeds to thy knowledge answerable ; add faith , Add virtue , patience , temperance ; add love , By name to come called charity , the soul Of all the rest : then wilt thou not be loth To leave this Paradise , but shalt possess A Paradise within thee , happier far .-- Let us descend now therefore from this top Of speculation ; for the hour precise Exacts our parting hence ; and see ! the guards , By me encamped on yonder hill , expect Their motion ; at whose front a flaming sword , In signal of remove , waves fiercely round : We may no longer stay : go , waken Eve ; Her also I with gentle dreams have calmed Portending good , and all her spirits composed To meek submission : thou , at season fit , Let her with thee partake what thou hast heard ; Chiefly what may concern her faith to know , The great deliverance by her seed to come ( For by the Woman ' s seed ) on all mankind : That ye may live , which will be many days , Both in one faith unanimous , though sad , With cause , for evils past ; yet much more cheered With meditation on the happy end .
Whence thou returnest , and whither wentest , I know ; For God is also in sleep ; and dreams advise , Which he hath sent propitious , some great good Presaging , since with sorrow and heart ' s distress Wearied I fell asleep : But now lead on ; In me is no delay ; with thee to go , Is to stay here ; without thee here to stay , Is to go hence unwilling ; thou to me Art all things under $ Heaven , all places thou , Who for my wilful crime art banished hence .
There was never any more inception than there is now , Nor any more youth or age than there is now , And will never be any more perfection than there is now , Nor any more heaven or hell than there is now .
21 I am the poet of the Body and I am the poet of the Soul , The pleasures of heaven are with me and the pains of hell are with me , The first I graft and increase upon myself , the latter I translate into new tongue .
Something I cannot see puts upward libidinous prongs , Seas of bright juice suffuse heaven .
31 I believe a leaf of grass is no less than the journey work of the stars , And the pismire is equally perfect , and a grain of sand , and the egg of the wren , And the tree - toad is a chef - d ' oeuvre for the highest , And the running blackberry would adorn the parlors of heaven , And the narrowest hinge in my hand puts to scorn all machinery , And the cow crunching with depress ' d head surpasses any statue , And a mouse is miracle enough to stagger sextillions of infidels .
By the city ' s quadrangular houses -- in log huts , camping with lumber - men , Along the ruts of the turnpike , along the dry gulch and rivulet bed , Weeding my onion - patch or hosing rows of carrots and parsnips , crossing savannas , trailing in forests , Prospecting , gold - digging , girdling the trees of a new purchase , Scorch ' d ankle - deep by the hot sand , hauling my boat down the shallow river , Where the panther walks to and fro on a limb overhead , where the buck turns furiously at the hunter , Where the rattlesnake suns his flabby length on a rock , where the otter is feeding on fish , Where the alligator in his tough pimples sleeps by the bayou , Where the black bear is searching for roots or honey , where the beaver pats the mud with his paddle - shaped tall ; Over the growing sugar , over the yellow - flower ' d cotton plant , over the rice in its low moist field , Over the sharp - peak ' d farm house , with its scallop ' d scum and slender shoots from the gutters , Over the western persimmon , over the long - leav ' d corn , over the delicate blue - flower flax , Over the white and brown buckwheat , a hummer and buzzer there with the rest , Over the dusky green of the rye as it ripples and shades in the breeze ; Scaling mountains , pulling myself cautiously up , holding on by low scragged limbs , Walking the path worn in the grass and beat through the leaves of the brush , Where the quail is whistling betwixt the woods and the wheat - lot , Where the bat flies in the Seventh - month eve , where the great goldbug drops through the dark , Where the brook puts out of the roots of the old tree and flows to the meadow , Where cattle stand and shake away flies with the tremulous shuddering of their hides , Where the cheese - cloth hangs in the kitchen , where andirons straddle the hearth - slab , where cobwebs fall in festoons from the rafters ; Where trip - hammers crash , where the press is whirling its cylinders , Wherever the human heart beats with terrible throes under its ribs , Where the pear - shaped balloon is floating aloft , ( floating in it myself and looking composedly down ,) Where the life - car is drawn on the slip - noose , where the heat hatches pale - green eggs in the dented sand , Where the she - whale swims with her calf and never forsakes it , Where the steam - ship trails hind - ways its long pennant of smoke , Where the fin of the shark cuts like a black chip out of the water , Where the half - burn ' d brig is riding on unknown currents , Where shells grow to her slimy deck , where the dead are corrupting below ; Where the dense - starr ' d flag is borne at the head of the regiments , Approaching Manhattan up by the long - stretching island , Under Niagara , the cataract falling like a veil over my countenance , Upon a door - step , upon the horse - block of hard wood outside , Upon the race - course , or enjoying picnics or jigs or a good game of base - ball , At he - festivals , with blackguard gibes , ironical license , bull - dances , drinking , laughter , At the cider - mill tasting the sweets of the brown mash , sucking the juice through a straw , At apple - peelings wanting kisses for all the red fruit I find , At musters , beach - parties , friendly bees , huskings , house - raisings ; Where the mocking - bird sounds his delicious gurgles , cackles , screams , weeps , Where the hay - rick stands in the barn - yard , where the dry - stalks are scatter ' d , where the brood - cow waits in the hovel , Where the bull advances to do his masculine work , where the stud to the mare , where the cock is treading the hen , Where the heifers browse , where geese nip their food with short jerks , Where sun - down shadows lengthen over the limitless and lonesome prairie , Where herds of buffalo make a crawling spread of the square miles far and near , Where the humming - bird shimmers , where the neck of the long - lived swan is curving and winding , Where the laughing - gull scoots by the shore , where she laughs her near - human laugh , Where bee - hives range on a gray bench in the garden half hid by the high weeds , Where band - neck ' d partridges roost in a ring on the ground with their heads out , Where burial coaches enter the arch ' d gates of a cemetery , Where winter wolves bark amid wastes of snow and icicled trees , Where the yellow - crown ' d heron comes to the edge of the marsh at night and feeds upon small crabs , Where the splash of swimmers and divers cools the warm noon , Where the katy - did works her chromatic reed on the walnut - tree over the well , Through patches of citrons and cucumbers with silver - wired leaves , Through the salt - lick or orange glade , or under conical firs , Through the gymnasium , through the curtain ' d saloon , through the office or public hall ; Pleas ' d with the native and pleas ' d with the foreign , pleas ' d with the new and old , Pleas ' d with the homely woman as well as the handsome , Pleas ' d with the quakeress as she puts off her bonnet and talks melodiously , Pleas ' d with the tune of the choir of the whitewash ' d church , Pleas ' d with the earnest words of the sweating Methodist preacher , impress ' d seriously at the camp - meeting ; Looking in at the shop - windows of Broadway the whole forenoon , flatting the flesh of my nose on the thick plate glass , Wandering the same afternoon with my face turn ' d up to the clouds , or down a lane or along the beach , My right and left arms round the sides of two friends , and I in the middle ; Coming home with the silent and dark - cheek ' d bush - boy , ( behind me he rides at the drape of the day ,) Far from the settlements studying the print of animals ' feet , or the moccasin print , By the cot in the hospital reaching lemonade to a feverish patient , Nigh the coffin ' d corpse when all is still , examining with a candle ; Voyaging to every port to dicker and adventure , Hurrying with the modern crowd as eager and fickle as any , Hot toward one I hate , ready in my madness to knife him , Solitary at midnight in my back yard , my thoughts gone from me a long while , Walking the old hills of Judaea with the beautiful gentle God by my side , Speeding through space , speeding through heaven and the stars , Speeding amid the seven satellites and the broad ring , and the diameter of eighty thousand miles , Speeding with tail ' d meteors , throwing fire - balls like the rest , Carrying the crescent child that carries its own full mother in its belly , Storming , enjoying , planning , loving , cautioning , Backing and filling , appearing and disappearing , I tread day and night such roads .
This day before dawn I ascended a hill and look ' d at the crowded heaven , And I said to my spirit When we become the enfolders of those orbs , and the pleasure and knowledge of every thing in them , shall we be fill ' d and satisfied then ?
I hear you whispering there O stars of heaven , O suns -- O grass of graves -- O perpetual transfers and promotions , If you do not say any thing how can I say any thing ?
5 This is the female form , A divine nimbus exhales from it from head to foot , It attracts with fierce undeniable attraction , I am drawn by its breath as if I were no more than a helpless vapor , all falls aside but myself and it , Books , art , religion , time , the visible and solid earth , and what was expected of heaven or fear ' d of hell , are now consumed , Mad filaments , ungovernable shoots play out of it , the response likewise ungovernable , Hair , bosom , hips , bend of legs , negligent falling hands all diffused , mine too diffused , Ebb stung by the flow and flow stung by the ebb , love - flesh swelling and deliciously aching , Limitless limpid jets of love hot and enormous , quivering jelly of love , white - blow and delirious nice , Bridegroom night of love working surely and softly into the prostrate dawn , Undulating into the willing and yielding day , Lost in the cleave of the clasping and sweet - flesh ' d day .
From imperfection ' s murkiest cloud , Darts always forth one ray of perfect light , One flash of heaven ' s glory .
There in the crowds stood I , and singled you out with attachment ;) Nor forget I to sing of the wonder , the ship as she swam up my bay , Well - shaped and stately the Great Eastern swam up my bay , she was 600 feet long , Her moving swiftly surrounded by myriads of small craft I forget not to sing ; Nor the comet that came unannounced out of the north flaring in heaven , Nor the strange huge meteor - procession dazzling and clear shooting over our heads , ( A moment , a moment long it sail ' d its balls of unearthly light over our heads , Then departed , dropt in the night , and was gone ;) Of such , and fitful as they , I sing -- with gleams from them would gleam and patch these chants , Your chants , O year all mottled with evil and good -- year of forebodings !
When million - footed Manhattan unpent descends to her pavements , When the thunder - cracking guns arouse me with the proud roar love , When the round - mouth ' d guns out of the smoke and smell I love spit their salutes , When the fire - flashing guns have fully alerted me , and heaven - clouds canopy my city with a delicate thin haze , When gorgeous the countless straight stems , the forests at the wharves , thicken with colors , When every ship richly drest carries her flag at the peak , When pennants trail and street - festoons hang from the windows , When Broadway is entirely given up to foot - passengers and foot - standers , when the mass is densest , When the facades of the houses are alive with people , when eyes gaze riveted tens of thousands at a time , When the guests from the islands advance , when the pageant moves forward visible , When the summons is made , when the answer that waited thousands of years answers , I too arising , answering , descend to the pavements , merge with the crowd , and gaze with them .
above it thou ascended ' st , And rested on the sky , thy slave that cradled thee ,) Now a blue point , far , far in heaven floating , As to the light emerging here on deck I watch thee , ( Myself a speck , a point on the world ' s floating vast .)
Thou born to match the gale , ( thou art all wings ,) To cope with heaven and earth and sea and hurricane , Thou ship of air that never furl ' st thy sails , Days , even weeks untired and onward , through spaces , realms gyrating , At dusk that lookist on Senegal , at morn America , That sport ' st amid the lightning - flash and thunder - cloud , In them , in thy experiences , had ' st thou my soul , What joys !
In the eastern sky up - buoying , The sorrowful vast phantom moves illumin ' d , (' Tis some mother ' s large transparent face , In heaven brighter growing .)
As I lay with my head in your lap camerado , The confession I made I resume , what I said to you and the open air I resume , I know I am restless and make others so , I know my words are weapons full of danger , full of death , For I confront peace , security , and all the settled laws , to unsettle them , I am more resolute because all have denied me than I could ever have been had all accepted me , I heed not and have never heeded either experience , cautions , majorities , nor ridicule , And the threat of what is call ' d hell is little or nothing to me , And the lure of what is call ' d heaven is little or nothing to me ; Dear camerado !
8 O western orb sailing the heaven , Now I know what you must have meant as a month since I walk ' d , As I walk ' d in silence the transparent shadowy night , As I saw you had something to tell as you bent to me night after night , As you droop ' d from the sky low down as if to my side , ( while the other stars all look ' d on ,) As we wander ' d together the solemn night , ( for something I know not what kept me from sleep ,) As the night advanced , and I saw on the rim of the west how full you were of woe , As I stood on the rising ground in the breeze in the cool transparent night , As I watch ' d where you pass ' d and was lost in the netherward black of the night , As my soul in its trouble dissatisfied sank , as where you sad orb , Concluded , dropt in the night , and was gone .
16 Passing the visions , passing the night , Passing , unloosing the hold of my comrades ' hands , Passing the song of the hermit bird and the tallying song of my soul , Victorious song , death ' s outlet song , yet varying ever - altering song , As low and wailing , yet clear the notes , rising and falling , flooding the night , Sadly sinking and fainting , as warning and warning , and yet again bursting with joy , Covering the earth and filling the spread of the heaven , As that powerful psalm in the night I heard from recesses , Passing , I leave thee lilac with heart - shaped leaves , I leave thee there in the door - yard , blooming , returning with spring .
7 ( Lo , high toward heaven , this day , Libertad , from the conqueress ' field return ' d , I mark the new aureola around your head , No more of soft astral , but dazzling and fierce , With war ' s flames and the lambent lightnings playing , And your port immovable where you stand , With still the inextinguishable glance and the clinch ' d and lifted fist , And your foot on the neck of the menacing one , the scorner utterly crush ' d beneath you , The menacing arrogant one that strode and advanced with his senseless scorn , bearing the murderous knife , The wide - swelling one , the braggart that would yesterday do so much , To - day a carrion dead and damn ' d , the despised of all the earth , An offal rank , to the dunghill maggots spurn ' d .)
Thou groan ' st with riches , thy wealth clothes thee as a swathing - garment , Thou laughest loud with ache of great possessions , A myriad - twining life like interlacing vines binds all thy vast demesne , As some huge ship freighted to water ' s edge thou ridest into port , As rain falls from the heaven and vapors rise from earth , so have the precious values fallen upon thee and risen out of thee ; Thou envy of the globe !
1 Rang the refrain along the hall , the prison , Rose to the roof , the vaults of heaven above , Pouring in floods of melody in tones so pensive sweet and strong the like whereof was never heard , Reaching the far - off sentry and the armed guards , who ceas ' d their pacing , Making the hearer ' s pulses stop for ecstasy and awe .
1 Out from behind this bending rough - cut mask , These lights and shades , this drama of the whole , This common curtain of the face contain ' d in me for me , in you for you , in each for each , ( Tragedies , sorrows , laughter , tears -- 0 heaven !
Now the great organ sounds , Tremulous , while underneath , ( as the hid footholds of the earth , On which arising rest , and leaping forth depend , All shapes of beauty , grace and strength , all hues we know , Green blades of grass and warbling birds , children that gambol and play , the clouds of heaven above ,) The strong base stands , and its pulsations intermits not , Bathing , supporting , merging all the rest , maternity of all the rest , And with it every instrument in multitudes , The players playing , all the world ' s musicians , The solemn hymns and masses rousing adoration , All passionate heart - chants , sorrowful appeals , The measureless sweet vocalists of ages , And for their solvent setting earth ' s own diapason , Of winds and woods and mighty ocean waves , A new composite orchestra , binder of years and climes , ten - fold renewer , As of the far - back days the poets tell , the Paradiso , The straying thence , the separation long , but now the wandering done , The journey done , the journeyman come home , And man and art with Nature fused again .
for earth and heaven ; ( The Almighty leader now for once has signal ' d with his wand .)
To crossing swords and gray hairs bared to heaven , The clear electric base and baritone of the world , The trombone duo , Libertad forever !
O you fables spurning the known , eluding the hold of the known , mounting to heaven !
Peace is always beautiful , The myth of heaven indicates peace and night .
The myth of heaven indicates the soul , The soul is always beautiful , it appears more or it appears less , it comes or it lags behind , It comes from its embower ' d garden and looks pleasantly on itself and encloses the world , Perfect and clean the genitals previously jetting , and perfect and clean the womb cohering , The head well - grown proportion ' d and plumb , and the bowels and joints proportion ' d and plumb .
Land of unprecedented faith , God ' s faith , Thy soil , thy very subsoil , all upheav ' d , The general inner earth so long so sedulously draped over , now hence for what it is boldly laid bare , Open ' d by thee to heaven ' s light for benefit or bale .
3 Blow trumpeter free and clear , I follow thee , While at thy liquid prelude , glad , serene , The fretting world , the streets , the noisy hours of day withdraw , A holy calm descends like dew upon me , I walk in cool refreshing night the walks of Paradise , I scent the grass , the moist air and the roses ; Thy song expands my numb ' d imbonded spirit , thou freest , launchest me , Floating and basking upon heaven ' s lake .
Haply God ' s riddle it , so vague and yet so certain , The soul for it , and all the visible universe for it , And heaven at last for it .
Spirit that form ' d this scene , These tumbled rock - piles grim and red , These reckless heaven - ambitious peaks , These gorges , turbulent - clear streams , this naked freshness , These formless wild arrays , for reasons of their own , I know thee , savage spirit -- we have communed together , Mine too such wild arrays , for reasons of their own ; Wast charged against my chants they had forgotten art ?
said I to the soft - falling shower , Which , strange to tell , gave me an answer , as here translated : I am the Poem of Earth , said the voice of the rain , Eternal I rise impalpable out of the land and the bottomless sea , Upward to heaven , whence , vaguely form ' d , altogether changed , and yet the same , I descend to lave the drouths , atomies , dust - layers of the globe , And all that in them without me were seeds only , latent , unborn ; And forever , by day and night , I give back life to my own origin , and make pure and beautify it ; ( For song , issuing from its birth - place , after fulfilment , wandering , Reck ' d or unreck ' d , duly with love returns .)
Kosmos , Quicksand Years , or Thoughts , Thou Mother with thy Equal Brood ," and many , many more unspecified , From fibre heart of mine -- from throat and tongue --( My life ' s hot pulsing blood , The personal urge and form for me -- not merely paper , automatic type and ink ,) Each song of mine -- each utterance in the past -- having its long , long history , Of life or death , or soldier ' s wound , of country ' s loss or safety , ( O heaven !
