The ivory , the gold , and the pearls , all received their appointment , and the gentleman having named the last day on which his existence could be continued without the possession of the toothpick - case , drew on his gloves with leisurely care , and bestowing another glance on the Miss Dashwoods , but such a one as seemed rather to demand than express admiration , walked off with a happy air of real conceit and affected indifference .
10 : 18 Moreover the king made a great throne of ivory , and overlaid it with the best gold .
10 : 22 For the king had at sea a navy of Tharshish with the navy of Hiram : once in three years came the navy of Tharshish , bringing gold , and silver , ivory , and apes , and peacocks .
22 : 39 Now the rest of the acts of Ahab , and all that he did , and the ivory house which he made , and all the cities that he built , are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel ?
9 : 17 Moreover the king made a great throne of ivory , and overlaid it with pure gold .
9 : 21 For the king ' s ships went to Tarshish with the servants of Huram : every three years once came the ships of Tarshish bringing gold , and silver , ivory , and apes , and peacocks .
45 : 8 All thy garments smell of myrrh , and aloes , and cassia , out of the ivory palaces , whereby they have made thee glad .
5 : 14 His hands are as gold rings set with the beryl : his belly is as bright ivory overlaid with sapphires .
7 : 4 Thy neck is as a tower of ivory ; thine eyes like the fishpools in Heshbon , by the gate of Bathrabbim : thy nose is as the tower of Lebanon which looketh toward Damascus .
27 : 6 Of the oaks of Bashan have they made thine oars ; the company of the Ashurites have made thy benches of ivory , brought out of the isles of Chittim .
27 : 15 The men of Dedan were thy merchants ; many isles were the merchandise of thine hand : they brought thee for a present horns of ivory and ebony .
3 : 15 And I will smite the winter house with the summer house ; and the houses of ivory shall perish , and the great houses shall have an end , saith the LORD .
6 : 3 Ye that put far away the evil day , and cause the seat of violence to come near ; 6 : 4 That lie upon beds of ivory , and stretch themselves upon their couches , and eat the lambs out of the flock , and the calves out of the midst of the stall ; 6 : 5 That chant to the sound of the viol , and invent to themselves instruments of musick , like David ; 6 : 6 That drink wine in bowls , and anoint themselves with the chief ointments : but they are not grieved for the affliction of Joseph .
18 : 11 And the merchants of the earth shall weep and mourn over her ; for no man buyeth their merchandise any more : 18 : 12 The merchandise of gold , and silver , and precious stones , and of pearls , and fine linen , and purple , and silk , and scarlet , and all thyine wood , and all manner vessels of ivory , and all manner vessels of most precious wood , and of brass , and iron , and marble , 18 : 13 And cinnamon , and odours , and ointments , and frankincense , and wine , and oil , and fine flour , and wheat , and beasts , and sheep , and horses , and chariots , and slaves , and souls of men .
At the same instant Sir Wilson Seymour burst back into the room , white as ivory .
He had a carved smile on his face , of copper flesh and ivory teeth ; but I think the most hateful thing about him was that he was in European dress .
It was a young woman in silvery satins of a Renascence design ; she had golden hair in two long shining ropes , and a face so startingly pale between them that she might have been chryselephantine -- made , that is , like some old Greek statues , out of ivory and gold .
Some were thickly set with glittering teeth resembling ivory saws ; others were tufted with knots of human hair ; and one was sickle - shaped , with a vast handle sweeping round like the segment made in the new - mown grass by a long - armed mower .
He goes down in the whirling heart of such a masterless commotion that he scarce heeds the moment when he drops seething into the yawning jaws awaiting him ; and the whale shoots - to all his ivory teeth , like so many white bolts , upon his prison .
Setting out in their canoes , after a perilous passage they discovered the island , and there they found an empty ivory casket ,-- the poor little Indian ' s skeleton .
She was apparelled like any barbaric Ethiopian emperor , his neck heavy with pendants of polished ivory .
Those thews ran not through base blocks of land wood , but deftly travelled over sheaves of sea - ivory .
The long rows of teeth on the bulwarks glistened in the moonlight ; and like the white ivory tusks of some huge elephant , vast curving icicles depended from the bows .
It had previously come to me that this ivory leg had at sea been fashioned from the polished bone of the sperm whale ' s jaw .
But after that morning , he was every day visible to the crew ; either standing in his pivot - hole , or seated upon an ivory stool he had ; or heavily walking the deck .
Some considering touch of humanity was in him ; for at times like these , he usually abstained from patrolling the quarter - deck ; because to his wearied mates , seeking repose within six inches of his ivory heel , such would have been the reverberating crack and din of that bony step , that their dreams would have been on the crunching teeth of sharks .
But once , the mood was on him too deep for common regardings ; and as with heavy , lumber - like pace he was measuring the ship from taffrail to mainmast , Stubb , the old second mate , came up from below , with a certain unassured , deprecating humorousness , hinted that if Captain Ahab was pleased to walk the planks , then , no one could say nay ; but there might be some way of muffling the noise ; hinting something indistinctly and hesitatingly about a globe of tow , and the insertion into it , of the ivory heel .
When Stubb had departed , Ahab stood for a while leaning over the bulwarks ; and then , as had been usual with him of late , calling a sailor of the watch , he sent him below for his ivory stool , and also his pipe .
You know the old man ' s ivory leg , well I dreamed he kicked me with it ; and when I tried to kick back , upon my soul , my little man , I kicked my leg right off !
' Very good ,' says he --' he used his ivory leg , didn ' t he ?'
No , you were kicked by a great man , and with a beautiful ivory leg , Stubb .
What precise purpose this ivory horn or lance answers , it would be hard to say .
It is noon ; and Dough - Boy , the steward , thrusting his pale loaf - of - bread face from the cabin - scuttle , announces dinner to his lord and master ; who , sitting in the lee quarter - boat , has just been taking an observation of the sun ; and is now mutely reckoning the latitude on the smooth , medallion - shaped tablet , reserved for that daily purpose on the upper part of his ivory leg .
Over his ivory - inlaid table , Ahab presided like a mute , maned sea - lion on the white coral beach , surrounded by his warlike but still deferential cubs .
Soon his steady , ivory stride was heard , as to and fro he paced his old rounds , upon planks so familiar to his tread , that they were all over dented , like geological stones , with the peculiar mark of his walk .
Nevertheless , so well did he succeed in that dissembling , that when with ivory leg he stepped ashore at last , no Nantucketer thought him otherwise than but naturally grieved , and that to the quick , with the terrible casualty which had overtaken him .
The vast swells of the omnipotent sea ; the surging , hollow roar they made , as they rolled along the eight gunwales , like gigantic bowls in a boundless bowling - green ; the brief suspended agony of the boat , as it would tip for an instant on the knife - like edge of the sharper waves , that almost seemed threatening to cut it in two ; the sudden profound dip into the watery glens and hollows ; the keen spurrings and goadings to gain the top of the opposite hill ; the headlong , sled - like slide down its other side ;-- all these , with the cries of the headsmen and harpooneers , and the shuddering gasps of the oarsmen , with the wondrous sight of the ivory Pequod bearing down upon her boats with outstretched sails , like a wild hen after her screaming brood ;-- all this was thrilling .
Until Cabaco ' s published discovery , the sailors had little foreseen it , though to be sure when , after being a little while out of port , all hands had concluded the customary business of fitting the whaleboats for service ; when some time after this Ahab was now and then found bestirring himself in the matter of making thole - pins with his own hands for what was thought to be one of the spare boats , and even solicitously cutting the small wooden skewers , which when the line is running out are pinned over the groove in the bow : when all this was observed in him , and particularly his solicitude in having an extra coat of sheathing in the bottom of the boat , as if to make it better withstand the pointed pressure of his ivory limb ; and also the anxiety he evinced in exactly shaping the thigh board , or clumsy cleat , as it is sometimes called , the horizontal piece in the boat ' s bow for bracing the knee against in darting or stabbing at the whale ; when it was observed how often he stood up in that boat with his solitary knee fixed in the semi - circular depression in the cleat , and with the carpenter ' s chisel gouged out a little here and straightened it a little there ; all these things , I say , had awakened much interest and curiosity at the time .
Days , weeks passed , and under easy sail , the ivory Pequod had slowly swept across four several cruising - grounds ; that off the Azores ; off the Cape de Verdes ; on the Plate ( so called ), being off the mouth of the Rio de la Plata ; and the Carrol Ground , an unstaked , watery locality , southerly from St . Helena .
But , at last , when turning to the eastward , the Cape winds began howling around us , and we rose and fell upon the long , troubled seas that are there ; when the ivory - tusked Pequod sharply bowed to the blast , and gored the dark waves in her madness , till , like showers of silver chips , the foam - flakes flew over her bulwarks ; then all this desolate vacuity of life went away , but gave place to sights more dismal than before .
So , with his ivory leg inserted into its accustomed hole , and with one hand firmly grasping a shroud , Ahab for hours and hours would stand gazing dead to windward , while an occasional squall of sleet or snow would all but congeal his very eyelashes together .
The ivory Pequod was turned into what seemed a shamble ; every sailor a butcher .
In most cases this lower jaw -- being easily unhinged by a practised artist -- is disengaged and hoisted on deck for the purpose of extracting the ivory teeth , and furnishing a supply of that hard white whalebone with which the fishermen fashion all sorts of curious articles , including canes , umbrella - stocks , and handles to riding - whips .
To sum up , then : in the Right Whale ' s there is no great well of sperm ; no ivory teeth at all ; no long , slender mandible of a lower jaw , like the Sperm Whale ' s .
Many of the ivory inlayings of her bulwarks and cabins were started from their places , by the unnatural dislocation .
Those narrow straits of Sunda divide Sumatra from Java ; and standing midway in that vast rampart of islands , buttressed by that bold green promontory , known to seamen as Java Head ; they not a little correspond to the central gateway opening into some vast walled empire : and considering the inexhaustible wealth of spices , and silks , and jewels , and gold , and ivory , with which the thousand islands of that oriental sea are enriched , it seems a significant provision of nature , that such treasures , by the very formation of the land , should at least bear the appearance , however ineffectual , of being guarded from the all - grasping western world .
Trumpet to mouth , the old man was standing in his hoisted quarter - boat , his ivory leg plainly revealed to the stranger captain , who was carelessly reclining in his own boat ' s bow .
With his ivory arm frankly thrust forth in welcome , the other captain advanced , and Ahab , putting out his ivory leg , and crossing the ivory arm ( like two sword - fish blades ) cried out in his walrus way , " Aye , aye , hearty !
" The White Whale ," said the Englishman , pointing his ivory arm towards the East , and taking a rueful sight along it , as if it had been a telescope ; " there I saw him , on the Line , last season ."
His face was an exceedingly round but sober one ; he was dressed in a faded blue woollen frock or shirt , and patched trowsers ; and had thus far been dividing his attention between a marlingspike he held in one hand , and a pill - box held in the other , occasionally casting a critical glance at the ivory limbs of the two crippled captains .
But I had no hand in shipping that ivory arm there ; that thing is against all rule "-- pointing at it with the marlingspike --" that is the captain ' s work , not mine ; he ordered the carpenter to make it ; he had that club - hammer there put to the end , to knock some one ' s brains out with , I suppose , as he tried mine once .
-- glancing at the ivory leg .
And that fine gam I had -- long , very long after old Ahab touched her planks with his ivory heel -- it minds me of the noble , solid , Saxon hospitality of that ship ; and may my parson forget me , and the devil remember me , if I ever lose sight of it .
To me this vast ivory - ribbed chest , with the long , unrelieved spine , extending far away from it in a straight line , not a little resembled the hull of a great ship new - laid upon the stocks , when only some twenty of her naked bow - ribs are inserted , and the keel is otherwise , for the time , but a long , disconnected timber .
He had lighted with such energy upon a thwart of his boat that his ivory leg had received a half - splintering shock .
And when after gaining his own deck , and his own pivot - hole there , he so vehemently wheeled round with an urgent command to the steersman ( it was , as ever , something about his not steering inflexibly enough ); then , the already shaken ivory received such an additional twist and wrench , that though it still remained entire , and to all appearances lusty , yet Ahab did not deem it entirely trustworthy .
For it had not been very long prior to the Pequod ' s sailing from Nantucket , that he had been found one night lying prone upon the ground , and insensible ; by some unknown , and seemingly inexplicable , unimaginable casualty , his ivory limb having been so violently displaced , that it had stake - wise smitten , and all but pierced his groin ; nor was it without extreme difficulty that the agonizing wound was entirely cured .
And when that functionary appeared before him , he bade him without delay set about making a new leg , and directed the mates to see him supplied with all the studs and joists of jaw - ivory ( Sperm Whale ) which had thus far been accumulated on the voyage , in order that a careful selection of the stoutest , clearest - grained stuff might be secured .
A lost land - bird of strange plumage strays on board , and is made a captive : out of clean shaved rods of right - whale bone , and cross - beams of sperm whale ivory , the carpenter makes a pagoda - looking cage for it .
Teeth he accounted bits of ivory ; heads he deemed but top - blocks ; men themselves he lightly held for capstans .
( CARPENTER STANDING BEFORE HIS VICE - BENCH , AND BY THE LIGHT OF TWO LANTERNS BUSILY FILING THE IVORY JOIST FOR THE LEG , WHICH JOIST IS FIRMLY FIXED IN THE VICE .
SLABS OF IVORY , LEATHER STRAPS , PADS , SCREWS , AND VARIOUS TOOLS OF ALL SORTS LYING ABOUT THE BENCH .
I almost forgot the little oval slate , smoothed ivory , where he figures up the latitude .
With his snow - white new ivory leg braced against the screwed leg of his table , and with a long pruning - hook of a jack - knife in his hand , the wondrous old man , with his back to the gangway door , was wrinkling his brow , and tracing his old courses again .
This done , pole , iron , and rope -- like the Three Fates -- remained inseparable , and Ahab moodily stalked away with the weapon ; the sound of his ivory leg , and the sound of the hickory pole , both hollowly ringing along every plank .
On the quarter - deck , the mates and harpooneers were dancing with the olive - hued girls who had eloped with them from the Polynesian Isles ; while suspended in an ornamented boat , firmly secured aloft between the foremast and mainmast , three Long Island negroes , with glittering fiddle - bows of whale ivory , were presiding over the hilarious jig .
At length the desired observation was taken ; and with his pencil upon his ivory leg , Ahab soon calculated what his latitude must be at that precise instant .
But chancing to slip with his ivory heel , he saw the crushed copper sight - tubes of the quadrant he had the day before dashed to the deck .
Listen , and thou wilt often hear my ivory foot upon the deck , and still know that I am there .
above there , I hear ivory -- Oh , master !
His ivory leg had been snapped off , leaving but one short sharp splinter .
Now had night measured with her shadowy cone Half way up hill this vast sublunar vault , And from their ivory port the Cherubim , Forth issuing at the accustomed hour , stood armed To their night watches in warlike parade ; When Gabriel to his next in power thus spake .
Then to the third -- a face nor child nor old , very calm , as of beautiful yellow - white ivory ; Young man I think I know you -- I think this face is the face of the Christ himself , Dead and divine and brother of all , and here again he lies .
