I am sure Miss Nash would -- for Miss Nash thinks her own sister very well married , and it is only a linen - draper ."
-- Ford ' s was the principal woollen - draper , linen - draper , and haberdasher ' s shop united ; the shop first in size and fashion in the place .--" And so , there she had set , without an idea of any thing in the world , full ten minutes , perhaps -- when , all of a sudden , who should come in -- to be sure it was so very odd !-- but they always dealt at Ford ' s -- who should come in , but Elizabeth Martin and her brother !-- Dear Miss Woodhouse !
When your father and mother moved to Norland , though the furniture of Stanhill was sold , all the china , plate , and linen was saved , and is now left to your mother .
It chiefly consisted of household linen , plate , china , and books , with a handsome pianoforte of Marianne ' s .
Far be it from me to repine at his doing so ; he had an undoubted right to dispose of his own property as he chose , but , in consequence of it , we have been obliged to make large purchases of linen , china , & c . to supply the place of what was taken away .
41 : 42 And Pharaoh took off his ring from his hand , and put it upon Joseph ' s hand , and arrayed him in vestures of fine linen , and put a gold chain about his neck ; 41 : 43 And he made him to ride in the second chariot which he had ; and they cried before him , Bow the knee : and he made him ruler over all the land of Egypt .
25 : 3 And this is the offering which ye shall take of them ; gold , and silver , and brass , 25 : 4 And blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine linen , and goats ' hair , 25 : 5 And rams ' skins dyed red , and badgers ' skins , and shittim wood , 25 : 6 Oil for the light , spices for anointing oil , and for sweet incense , 25 : 7 Onyx stones , and stones to be set in the ephod , and in the breastplate .
26 : 1 Moreover thou shalt make the tabernacle with ten curtains of fine twined linen , and blue , and purple , and scarlet : with cherubims of cunning work shalt thou make them .
26 : 31 And thou shalt make a vail of blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine twined linen of cunning work : with cherubims shall it be made : 26 : 32 And thou shalt hang it upon four pillars of shittim wood overlaid with gold : their hooks shall be of gold , upon the four sockets of silver .
26 : 36 And thou shalt make an hanging for the door of the tent , of blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine twined linen , wrought with needlework .
27 : 9 And thou shalt make the court of the tabernacle : for the south side southward there shall be hangings for the court of fine twined linen of an hundred cubits long for one side : 27 : 10 And the twenty pillars thereof and their twenty sockets shall be of brass ; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets shall be of silver .
27 : 16 And for the gate of the court shall be an hanging of twenty cubits , of blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine twined linen , wrought with needlework : and their pillars shall be four , and their sockets four .
27 : 18 The length of the court shall be an hundred cubits , and the breadth fifty every where , and the height five cubits of fine twined linen , and their sockets of brass .
28 : 5 And they shall take gold , and blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine linen .
28 : 6 And they shall make the ephod of gold , of blue , and of purple , of scarlet , and fine twined linen , with cunning work .
28 : 8 And the curious girdle of the ephod , which is upon it , shall be of the same , according to the work thereof ; even of gold , of blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine twined linen .
28 : 15 And thou shalt make the breastplate of judgment with cunning work ; after the work of the ephod thou shalt make it ; of gold , of blue , and of purple , and of scarlet , and of fine twined linen , shalt thou make it .
28 : 39 And thou shalt embroider the coat of fine linen , and thou shalt make the mitre of fine linen , and thou shalt make the girdle of needlework .
28 : 42 And thou shalt make them linen breeches to cover their nakedness ; from the loins even unto the thighs they shall reach : 28 : 43 And they shall be upon Aaron , and upon his sons , when they come in unto the tabernacle of the congregation , or when they come near unto the altar to minister in the holy place ; that they bear not iniquity , and die : it shall be a statute for ever unto him and his seed after him .
35 : 4 And Moses spake unto all the congregation of the children of Israel , saying , This is the thing which the LORD commanded , saying , 35 : 5 Take ye from among you an offering unto the LORD : whosoever is of a willing heart , let him bring it , an offering of the LORD ; gold , and silver , and brass , 35 : 6 And blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine linen , and goats ' hair , 35 : 7 And rams ' skins dyed red , and badgers ' skins , and shittim wood , 35 : 8 And oil for the light , and spices for anointing oil , and for the sweet incense , 35 : 9 And onyx stones , and stones to be set for the ephod , and for the breastplate .
35 : 23 And every man , with whom was found blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine linen , and goats ' hair , and red skins of rams , and badgers ' skins , brought them .
35 : 25 And all the women that were wise hearted did spin with their hands , and brought that which they had spun , both of blue , and of purple , and of scarlet , and of fine linen .
35 : 35 Them hath he filled with wisdom of heart , to work all manner of work , of the engraver , and of the cunning workman , and of the embroiderer , in blue , and in purple , in scarlet , and in fine linen , and of the weaver , even of them that do any work , and of those that devise cunning work .
36 : 8 And every wise hearted man among them that wrought the work of the tabernacle made ten curtains of fine twined linen , and blue , and purple , and scarlet : with cherubims of cunning work made he them .
36 : 35 And he made a vail of blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine twined linen : with cherubims made he it of cunning work .
36 : 37 And he made an hanging for the tabernacle door of blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine twined linen , of needlework ; 36 : 38 And the five pillars of it with their hooks : and he overlaid their chapiters and their fillets with gold : but their five sockets were of brass .
38 : 9 And he made the court : on the south side southward the hangings of the court were of fine twined linen , an hundred cubits : 38 : 10 Their pillars were twenty , and their brasen sockets twenty ; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets were of silver .
38 : 16 All the hangings of the court round about were of fine twined linen .
38 : 18 And the hanging for the gate of the court was needlework , of blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine twined linen : and twenty cubits was the length , and the height in the breadth was five cubits , answerable to the hangings of the court .
38 : 23 And with him was Aholiab , son of Ahisamach , of the tribe of Dan , an engraver , and a cunning workman , and an embroiderer in blue , and in purple , and in scarlet , and fine linen .
39 : 2 And he made the ephod of gold , blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine twined linen .
39 : 3 And they did beat the gold into thin plates , and cut it into wires , to work it in the blue , and in the purple , and in the scarlet , and in the fine linen , with cunning work .
39 : 5 And the curious girdle of his ephod , that was upon it , was of the same , according to the work thereof ; of gold , blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine twined linen ; as the LORD commanded Moses .
39 : 8 And he made the breastplate of cunning work , like the work of the ephod ; of gold , blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine twined linen .
39 : 24 And they made upon the hems of the robe pomegranates of blue , and purple , and scarlet , and twined linen .
39 : 27 And they made coats of fine linen of woven work for Aaron , and for his sons , 39 : 28 And a mitre of fine linen , and goodly bonnets of fine linen , and linen breeches of fine twined linen , 39 : 29 And a girdle of fine twined linen , and blue , and purple , and scarlet , of needlework ; as the LORD commanded Moses .
6 : 10 And the priest shall put on his linen garment , and his linen breeches shall he put upon his flesh , and take up the ashes which the fire hath consumed with the burnt offering on the altar , and he shall put them beside the altar .
13 : 47 The garment also that the plague of leprosy is in , whether it be a woollen garment , or a linen garment ; 13 : 48 Whether it be in the warp , or woof ; of linen , or of woollen ; whether in a skin , or in any thing made of skin ; 13 : 49 And if the plague be greenish or reddish in the garment , or in the skin , either in the warp , or in the woof , or in any thing of skin ; it is a plague of leprosy , and shall be shewed unto the priest : 13 : 50 And the priest shall look upon the plague , and shut up it that hath the plague seven days : 13 : 51 And he shall look on the plague on the seventh day : if the plague be spread in the garment , either in the warp , or in the woof , or in a skin , or in any work that is made of skin ; the plague is a fretting leprosy ; it is unclean .
13 : 52 He shall therefore burn that garment , whether warp or woof , in woollen or in linen , or any thing of skin , wherein the plague is : for it is a fretting leprosy ; it shall be burnt in the fire .
13 : 59 This is the law of the plague of leprosy in a garment of woollen or linen , either in the warp , or woof , or any thing of skins , to pronounce it clean , or to pronounce it unclean .
16 : 4 He shall put on the holy linen coat , and he shall have the linen breeches upon his flesh , and shall be girded with a linen girdle , and with the linen mitre shall he be attired : these are holy garments ; therefore shall he wash his flesh in water , and so put them on .
16 : 23 And Aaron shall come into the tabernacle of the congregation , and shall put off the linen garments , which he put on when he went into the holy place , and shall leave them there : 16 : 24 And he shall wash his flesh with water in the holy place , and put on his garments , and come forth , and offer his burnt offering , and the burnt offering of the people , and make an atonement for himself , and for the people .
16 : 32 And the priest , whom he shall anoint , and whom he shall consecrate to minister in the priest ' s office in his father ' s stead , shall make the atonement , and shall put on the linen clothes , even the holy garments : 16 : 33 And he shall make an atonement for the holy sanctuary , and he shall make an atonement for the tabernacle of the congregation , and for the altar , and he shall make an atonement for the priests , and for all the people of the congregation .
Thou shalt not let thy cattle gender with a diverse kind : thou shalt not sow thy field with mingled seed : neither shall a garment mingled of linen and woollen come upon thee .
22 : 11 Thou shalt not wear a garment of divers sorts , as of woollen and linen together .
2 : 18 But Samuel ministered before the LORD , being a child , girded with a linen ephod .
And Doeg the Edomite turned , and he fell upon the priests , and slew on that day fourscore and five persons that did wear a linen ephod .
6 : 14 And David danced before the LORD with all his might ; and David was girded with a linen ephod .
10 : 28 And Solomon had horses brought out of Egypt , and linen yarn : the king ' s merchants received the linen yarn at a price .
4 : 21 The sons of Shelah the son of Judah were , Er the father of Lecah , and Laadah the father of Mareshah , and the families of the house of them that wrought fine linen , of the house of Ashbea , 4 : 22 And Jokim , and the men of Chozeba , and Joash , and Saraph , who had the dominion in Moab , and Jashubilehem .
15 : 27 And David was clothed with a robe of fine linen , and all the Levites that bare the ark , and the singers , and Chenaniah the master of the song with the singers : David also had upon him an ephod of linen .
1 : 16 And Solomon had horses brought out of Egypt , and linen yarn : the king ' s merchants received the linen yarn at a price .
2 : 13 And now I have sent a cunning man , endued with understanding , of Huram my father ' s , 2 : 14 The son of a woman of the daughters of Dan , and his father was a man of Tyre , skilful to work in gold , and in silver , in brass , in iron , in stone , and in timber , in purple , in blue , and in fine linen , and in crimson ; also to grave any manner of graving , and to find out every device which shall be put to him , with thy cunning men , and with the cunning men of my lord David thy father .
3 : 14 And he made the vail of blue , and purple , and crimson , and fine linen , and wrought cherubims thereon .
5 : 11 And it came to pass , when the priests were come out of the holy place : ( for all the priests that were present were sanctified , and did not then wait by course : 5 : 12 Also the Levites which were the singers , all of them of Asaph , of Heman , of Jeduthun , with their sons and their brethren , being arrayed in white linen , having cymbals and psalteries and harps , stood at the east end of the altar , and with them an hundred and twenty priests sounding with trumpets :) 5 : 13 It came even to pass , as the trumpeters and singers were as one , to make one sound to be heard in praising and thanking the LORD ; and when they lifted up their voice with the trumpets and cymbals and instruments of musick , and praised the LORD , saying , For he is good ; for his mercy endureth for ever : that then the house was filled with a cloud , even the house of the LORD ; 5 : 14 So that the priests could not stand to minister by reason of the cloud : for the glory of the LORD had filled the house of God .
1 : 5 And when these days were expired , the king made a feast unto all the people that were present in Shushan the palace , both unto great and small , seven days , in the court of the garden of the king ' s palace ; 1 : 6 Where were white , green , and blue , hangings , fastened with cords of fine linen and purple to silver rings and pillars of marble : the beds were of gold and silver , upon a pavement of red , and blue , and white , and black , marble .
8 : 15 And Mordecai went out from the presence of the king in royal apparel of blue and white , and with a great crown of gold , and with a garment of fine linen and purple : and the city of Shushan rejoiced and was glad .
7 : 16 I have decked my bed with coverings of tapestry , with carved works , with fine linen of Egypt .
31 : 24 She maketh fine linen , and selleth it ; and delivereth girdles unto the merchant .
3 : 18 In that day the Lord will take away the bravery of their tinkling ornaments about their feet , and their cauls , and their round tires like the moon , 3 : 19 The chains , and the bracelets , and the mufflers , 3 : 20 The bonnets , and the ornaments of the legs , and the headbands , and the tablets , and the earrings , 3 : 21 The rings , and nose jewels , 3 : 22 The changeable suits of apparel , and the mantles , and the wimples , and the crisping pins , 3 : 23 The glasses , and the fine linen , and the hoods , and the vails .
13 : 1 Thus saith the LORD unto me , Go and get thee a linen girdle , and put it upon thy loins , and put it not in water .
9 : 2 And , behold , six men came from the way of the higher gate , which lieth toward the north , and every man a slaughter weapon in his hand ; and one man among them was clothed with linen , with a writer ' s inkhorn by his side : and they went in , and stood beside the brasen altar .
And he called to the man clothed with linen , which had the writer ' s inkhorn by his side ; 9 : 4 And the LORD said unto him , Go through the midst of the city , through the midst of Jerusalem , and set a mark upon the foreheads of the men that sigh and that cry for all the abominations that be done in the midst thereof .
9 : 11 And , behold , the man clothed with linen , which had the inkhorn by his side , reported the matter , saying , I have done as thou hast commanded me .
10 : 2 And he spake unto the man clothed with linen , and said , Go in between the wheels , even under the cherub , and fill thine hand with coals of fire from between the cherubims , and scatter them over the city .
10 : 6 And it came to pass , that when he had commanded the man clothed with linen , saying , Take fire from between the wheels , from between the cherubims ; then he went in , and stood beside the wheels .
10 : 7 And one cherub stretched forth his hand from between the cherubims unto the fire that was between the cherubims , and took thereof , and put it into the hands of him that was clothed with linen : who took it , and went out .
16 : 10 I clothed thee also with broidered work , and shod thee with badgers ' skin , and I girded thee about with fine linen , and I covered thee with silk .
16 : 13 Thus wast thou decked with gold and silver ; and thy raiment was of fine linen , and silk , and broidered work ; thou didst eat fine flour , and honey , and oil : and thou wast exceeding beautiful , and thou didst prosper into a kingdom .
27 : 7 Fine linen with broidered work from Egypt was that which thou spreadest forth to be thy sail ; blue and purple from the isles of Elishah was that which covered thee .
27 : 16 Syria was thy merchant by reason of the multitude of the wares of thy making : they occupied in thy fairs with emeralds , purple , and broidered work , and fine linen , and coral , and agate .
44 : 17 And it shall come to pass , that when they enter in at the gates of the inner court , they shall be clothed with linen garments ; and no wool shall come upon them , whiles they minister in the gates of the inner court , and within .
44 : 18 They shall have linen bonnets upon their heads , and shall have linen breeches upon their loins ; they shall not gird themselves with any thing that causeth sweat .
10 : 4 And in the four and twentieth day of the first month , as I was by the side of the great river , which is Hiddekel ; 10 : 5 Then I lifted up mine eyes , and looked , and behold a certain man clothed in linen , whose loins were girded with fine gold of Uphaz : 10 : 6 His body also was like the beryl , and his face as the appearance of lightning , and his eyes as lamps of fire , and his arms and his feet like in colour to polished brass , and the voice of his words like the voice of a multitude .
12 : 6 And one said to the man clothed in linen , which was upon the waters of the river , How long shall it be to the end of these wonders ?
12 : 7 And I heard the man clothed in linen , which was upon the waters of the river , when he held up his right hand and his left hand unto heaven , and sware by him that liveth for ever that it shall be for a time , times , and an half ; and when he shall have accomplished to scatter the power of the holy people , all these things shall be finished .
27 : 59 And when Joseph had taken the body , he wrapped it in a clean linen cloth , 27 : 60 And laid it in his own new tomb , which he had hewn out in the rock : and he rolled a great stone to the door of the sepulchre , and departed .
14 : 51 And there followed him a certain young man , having a linen cloth cast about his naked body ; and the young men laid hold on him : 14 : 52 And he left the linen cloth , and fled from them naked .
15 : 46 And he bought fine linen , and took him down , and wrapped him in the linen , and laid him in a sepulchre which was hewn out of a rock , and rolled a stone unto the door of the sepulchre .
16 : 19 There was a certain rich man , which was clothed in purple and fine linen , and fared sumptuously every day : 16 : 20 And there was a certain beggar named Lazarus , which was laid at his gate , full of sores , 16 : 21 And desiring to be fed with the crumbs which fell from the rich man ' s table : moreover the dogs came and licked his sores .
23 : 53 And he took it down , and wrapped it in linen , and laid it in a sepulchre that was hewn in stone , wherein never man before was laid .
24 : 12 Then arose Peter , and ran unto the sepulchre ; and stooping down , he beheld the linen clothes laid by themselves , and departed , wondering in himself at that which was come to pass .
19 : 40 Then took they the body of Jesus , and wound it in linen clothes with the spices , as the manner of the Jews is to bury .
20 : 5 And he stooping down , and looking in , saw the linen clothes lying ; yet went he not in .
20 : 6 Then cometh Simon Peter following him , and went into the sepulchre , and seeth the linen clothes lie , 20 : 7 And the napkin , that was about his head , not lying with the linen clothes , but wrapped together in a place by itself .
15 : 5 And after that I looked , and , behold , the temple of the tabernacle of the testimony in heaven was opened : 15 : 6 And the seven angels came out of the temple , having the seven plagues , clothed in pure and white linen , and having their breasts girded with golden girdles .
18 : 11 And the merchants of the earth shall weep and mourn over her ; for no man buyeth their merchandise any more : 18 : 12 The merchandise of gold , and silver , and precious stones , and of pearls , and fine linen , and purple , and silk , and scarlet , and all thyine wood , and all manner vessels of ivory , and all manner vessels of most precious wood , and of brass , and iron , and marble , 18 : 13 And cinnamon , and odours , and ointments , and frankincense , and wine , and oil , and fine flour , and wheat , and beasts , and sheep , and horses , and chariots , and slaves , and souls of men .
18 : 15 The merchants of these things , which were made rich by her , shall stand afar off for the fear of her torment , weeping and wailing , 18 : 16 And saying , Alas , alas that great city , that was clothed in fine linen , and purple , and scarlet , and decked with gold , and precious stones , and pearls !
19 : 8 And to her was granted that she should be arrayed in fine linen , clean and white : for the fine linen is the righteousness of saints .
19 : 14 And the armies which were in heaven followed him upon white horses , clothed in fine linen , white and clean .
He wore an ordinary dark - blue jacket , with nothing special about the buttons , but the combination of it with white linen trousers somehow had a sailorish look .
Franklin ran upstairs to awaken Mrs . Pomfret , whose terror of fire was so great that she came from her room almost out of her senses , whilst he , with the greatest presence of mind , recollected where he had seen two large tubs of water , which the maids had prepared the night before for their washing , and seizing the wet linen which had been left to soak , he threw them upon the flames .
" I must get his linen ready for him .
Susan was mending her father ' s linen , when Rose tapped softly at the window , and beckoned to her to come out .
The shopkeeper , who was father to Susan ' s friend Rose , looked much satisfied by this speech , and as if a compliment had been paid to himself , bowed low to Miss Somers , and then with alertness , which a London linen - draper might have admired , produced piece after piece of his best goods to his young customer -- unrolled , unfolded , held the bright stuffs and calendered calicoes in various lights .
It was fair to presume that being a harpooneer , his linen or woollen , as the case might be , would not be of the tidiest , certainly none of the finest .
again growled the cannibal , while his horrid flourishings of the tomahawk scattered the hot tobacco ashes about me till I thought my linen would get on fire .
As devout Eckerman lifted the linen sheet from the naked corpse of Goethe , he was overwhelmed with the massive chest of the man , that seemed as a Roman triumphal arch .
Then going through some small strange motions with it -- whether indispensable to the magnetizing of the steel , or merely intended to augment the awe of the crew , is uncertain -- he called for linen thread ; and moving to the binnacle , slipped out the two reversed needles there , and horizontally suspended the sail - needle by its middle , over one of the compass - cards .
I look on chisell ' d histories , records of conquering kings , dynasties , cut in slabs of sand - stone , or on granite - blocks , I see at Memphis mummy - pits containing mummies embalm ' d , swathed in linen cloth , lying there many centuries , I look on the fall ' n Theban , the large - ball ' d eyes , the side - drooping neck , the hands folded across the breast .
Her ample gown is of cream - hued linen , Her grandsons raised the flax , and her grand - daughters spun it with the distaff and the wheel .
