Madeleine Durand was physically a sleepy young woman , and might easily have been supposed to be morally a lazy one .
His name was Camille Bert , and he was a commercial traveller who had only been in the island an idle week before he began to hover in the tracks of Madeleine Durand .
Since everyone knows everyone in so small a place , Madeleine certainly knew him to speak to ; but it is not very evident that she ever spoke .
It was perhaps this religious regularity which eventually drew Madeleine into recognition of him .
On one such evening at least no one was in church except the quiet , unconquerable Madeleine , four old women , one fisherman , and , of course , the irrepressible M . Camille Bert .
Even Durand was invisible instead of being merely reverentially remote ; and Madeleine set forth through the patch of black forest alone .
Madeleine Durand had come to a halt at first in childish wonder , and now , with more than masculine self - control , " I fancy I know your face , sir ," she said , as if to gain time .
Up to the moment when Camille had hit the Count , Madeleine had entertained no doubt that the Count was merely a madman .
On the next night Madeleine Durand went to church as usual ; and as usual the stricken Camille was there also .
What was not so usual was that when they were a bow - shot from the church Madeleine turned round and walked back to him .
" There will be another mass in a matter of eight hours ," said Madeleine , with a sort of business eagerness and energy , " and you can do it then before the fighting .
He advanced upon Madeleine with flaming eyes , and almost took her by the two shoulders .
Madeleine looked at him doubtfully for an instant , and then said with a sudden simplicity and cheerfulness : " Oh , but if you are really sorry it is all right .
said Madeleine , in massive wonder .
" You want me really to believe ," said Madeleine , with parted lips , " that you think ----"
" But there is ," said Madeleine , quite quietly , and rather with the air of one telling children about an elephant .
" Why , how silly of them ," cried out Madeleine , with quite a schoolgirl gaiety , " why , how silly of them to call _you_ a blasphemer !
Within a few feet of him at one corner of the square of standing people stood the girl he had known in Jersey , Madeleine Durand .
He stepped impulsively forward towards Madeleine , and then wavered with a kind of wild humility .
As he did so he caught sight of another square face behind Madeleine ' s , a face with long grey whiskers and an austere stare .
He drew nearer to Madeleine , but still doubtfully and all the more so because she still smiled at him .
Madeleine Durand actually professes to have been the subject of the fight between MacIan and his enemy , a fight which , if it occurred at all , certainly began long before .
Turnbull looked once at Madeleine , and followed .
When James Turnbull saw this he suddenly put out a hand and seemed to support himself on the strong shoulder of Madeleine Durand .
As the little singing figure came nearer and nearer , Evan fell on his knees , and after an instant Beatrice followed ; then Madeleine fell on her knees , and after a longer instant Turnbull followed .
