13 : 31 Another parable put he forth unto them , saying , The kingdom of heaven is like to a grain of mustard seed , which a man took , and sowed in his field : 13 : 32 Which indeed is the least of all seeds : but when it is grown , it is the greatest among herbs , and becometh a tree , so that the birds of the air come and lodge in the branches thereof .
17 : 20 And Jesus said unto them , Because of your unbelief : for verily I say unto you , If ye have faith as a grain of mustard seed , ye shall say unto this mountain , Remove hence to yonder place ; and it shall remove ; and nothing shall be impossible unto you .
4 : 31 It is like a grain of mustard seed , which , when it is sown in the earth , is less than all the seeds that be in the earth : 4 : 32 But when it is sown , it groweth up , and becometh greater than all herbs , and shooteth out great branches ; so that the fowls of the air may lodge under the shadow of it .
13 : 19 It is like a grain of mustard seed , which a man took , and cast into his garden ; and it grew , and waxed a great tree ; and the fowls of the air lodged in the branches of it .
17 : 6 And the Lord said , If ye had faith as a grain of mustard seed , ye might say unto this sycamine tree , Be thou plucked up by the root , and be thou planted in the sea ; and it should obey you .
" It is a garden where you have all the things that make nice salad ," said her mother , laughing , for Margery was fond of salads ; " you have lettuce , and endive , and mustard and cress , and parsley , and radishes , and beetroot , and young onions ."
' Very true ,' said the Duchess : ' flamingoes and mustard both bite .
' Only mustard isn ' t a bird ,' Alice remarked .
' Of course it is ,' said the Duchess , who seemed ready to agree to everything that Alice said ; ' there ' s a large mustard - mine near here .
" You must remember that mustard , vinegar , oil and so on vanished with the cruet and the burglar ."
" I wonder why the burglar wanted mustard , too ," he went on , taking a mustard - pot from another pocket .
" A mustard plaster , I suppose .
" Have you heard of faith like a grain of mustard - seed ; or charity that anoints with oil ?
Father Brown , who was making the salad , tipped two spoonfuls of the mustard into the tumbler of water beside him ; stood up and said in a new , loud and sudden voice --" Drink that !"
Mrs . Hussey soon appeared , with a mustard - pot in one hand and a vinegar - cruet in the other , having just broken away from the occupation of attending to the castors , and scolding her little black boy meantime .
-- and so saying I was unmethodically rushing up stairs again empty - handed , when Mrs . Hussey interposed the mustard - pot and vinegar - cruet , and the entire castor of her countenance .
