" I presume to observe , Sir Walter , that , in the way of business , gentlemen of the navy are well to deal with .
" There are few among the gentlemen of the navy , I imagine , who would not be surprised to find themselves in a house of this description ."
The park would be open to him of course , and few navy officers , or men of any other description , can have had such a range ; but what restrictions I might impose on the use of the pleasure - grounds , is another thing .
" The navy , I think , who have done so much for us , have at least an equal claim with any other set of men , for all the comforts and all the privileges which any home can give .
A man is in greater danger in the navy of being insulted by the rise of one whose father , his father might have disdained to speak to , and of becoming prematurely an object of disgust himself , than in any other line .
She had only navy lists and newspapers for her authority , but she could not doubt his being rich ; and , in favour of his constancy , she had no reason to believe him married .
A little beauty , and a few smiles , and a few compliments to the navy , and I am a lost man .
When she could let her attention take its natural course again , she found the Miss Musgroves just fetching the Navy List ( their own navy list , the first that had ever been at Uppercross ), and sitting down together to pore over it , with the professed view of finding out the ships that Captain Wentworth had commanded .
Here was a fortune at once ; besides which , there would be the chance of what might be done in any future war ; and he was sure Captain Wentworth was as likely a man to distinguish himself as any officer in the navy .
Anne thought she left great happiness behind her when they quitted the house ; and Louisa , by whom she found herself walking , burst forth into raptures of admiration and delight on the character of the navy ; their friendliness , their brotherliness , their openness , their uprightness ; protesting that she was convinced of sailors having more worth and warmth than any other set of men in England ; that they only knew how to live , and they only deserved to be respected and loved .
She always watched them as long as she could , delighted to fancy she understood what they might be talking of , as they walked along in happy independence , or equally delighted to see the Admiral ' s hearty shake of the hand when he encountered an old friend , and observe their eagerness of conversation when occasionally forming into a little knot of the navy , Mrs Croft looking as intelligent and keen as any of the officers around her .
Wentworth ; Captain Wentworth of the navy .
As for the navy , it had fashion on its side , but I was too old when the subject was first started to enter it -- and , at length , as there was no necessity for my having any profession at all , as I might be as dashing and expensive without a red coat on my back as with one , idleness was pronounced on the whole to be most advantageous and honourable , and a young man of eighteen is not in general so earnestly bent on being busy as to resist the solicitations of his friends to do nothing .
9 : 26 And king Solomon made a navy of ships in Eziongeber , which is beside Eloth , on the shore of the Red sea , in the land of Edom .
9 : 27 And Hiram sent in the navy his servants , shipmen that had knowledge of the sea , with the servants of Solomon .
10 : 11 And the navy also of Hiram , that brought gold from Ophir , brought in from Ophir great plenty of almug trees , and precious stones .
10 : 22 For the king had at sea a navy of Tharshish with the navy of Hiram : once in three years came the navy of Tharshish , bringing gold , and silver , ivory , and apes , and peacocks .
But because two gentlemen , from private feelings of delicacy , do want to die , they will mobilize the army and navy to prevent them .
There were Mr . Wilkinson ' s cigar - boxes and Mr . Wilkinson ' s dozen of champagne and Mr . Wilkinson ' s tinned salmon and Mr . Wilkinson ' s tinned tongue and Mr . Wilkinson ' s tinned sardines , and every sort of preserved thing that could be seen at the Army and Navy stores .
He was tall and loose , and walked with a sort of swagger , which was not a sailor ' s roll , and yet somehow suggested it ; and he held in his hand a short sabre which was like a navy cutlass , but about twice as big .
They first caught crabs and quohogs in the sand ; grown bolder , they waded out with nets for mackerel ; more experienced , they pushed off in boats and captured cod ; and at last , launching a navy of great ships on the sea , explored this watery world ; put an incessant belt of circumnavigations round it ; peeped in at Behring ' s Straits ; and in all seasons and all oceans declared everlasting war with the mightiest animated mass that has survived the flood ; most monstrous and most mountainous !
And lastly , how comes it that we whalemen of America now outnumber all the rest of the banded whalemen in the world ; sail a navy of upwards of seven hundred vessels ; manned by eighteen thousand men ; yearly consuming 4 , 000 , 000 of dollars ; the ships worth , at the time of sailing , $ 20 , 000 , 000 !
Indeed , many are the Nantucket ships in which you will see the skipper parading his quarter - deck with an elated grandeur not surpassed in any military navy ; nay , extorting almost as much outward homage as if he wore the imperial purple , and not the shabbiest of pilot - cloth .
I am told , on good authority , that on the Barbary coast , a Commodore Davis of the British navy found the skeleton of a sperm whale .
Then again , there is an imposing quarto , written by one Captain Colnett , a Post Captain in the English navy , entitled " A Voyage round Cape Horn into the South Seas , for the purpose of extending the Spermaceti Whale Fisheries ."
