Colonel Campbell rather preferred an olive .
8 : 10 And he stayed yet other seven days ; and again he sent forth the dove out of the ark ; 8 : 11 And the dove came in to him in the evening ; and , lo , in her mouth was an olive leaf pluckt off : so Noah knew that the waters were abated from off the earth .
27 : 20 And thou shalt command the children of Israel , that they bring thee pure oil olive beaten for the light , to cause the lamp to burn always .
30 : 22 Moreover the LORD spake unto Moses , saying , 30 : 23 Take thou also unto thee principal spices , of pure myrrh five hundred shekels , and of sweet cinnamon half so much , even two hundred and fifty shekels , and of sweet calamus two hundred and fifty shekels , 30 : 24 And of cassia five hundred shekels , after the shekel of the sanctuary , and of oil olive an hin : 30 : 25 And thou shalt make it an oil of holy ointment , an ointment compound after the art of the apothecary : it shall be an holy anointing oil .
24 : 1 And the LORD spake unto Moses , saying , 24 : 2 Command the children of Israel , that they bring unto thee pure oil olive beaten for the light , to cause the lamps to burn continually .
6 : 10 And it shall be , when the LORD thy God shall have brought thee into the land which he sware unto thy fathers , to Abraham , to Isaac , and to Jacob , to give thee great and goodly cities , which thou buildedst not , 6 : 11 And houses full of all good things , which thou filledst not , and wells digged , which thou diggedst not , vineyards and olive trees , which thou plantedst not ; when thou shalt have eaten and be full ; 6 : 12 Then beware lest thou forget the LORD , which brought thee forth out of the land of Egypt , from the house of bondage .
8 : 7 For the LORD thy God bringeth thee into a good land , a land of brooks of water , of fountains and depths that spring out of valleys and hills ; 8 : 8 A land of wheat , and barley , and vines , and fig trees , and pomegranates ; a land of oil olive , and honey ; 8 : 9 A land wherein thou shalt eat bread without scarceness , thou shalt not lack any thing in it ; a land whose stones are iron , and out of whose hills thou mayest dig brass .
24 : 20 When thou beatest thine olive tree , thou shalt not go over the boughs again : it shall be for the stranger , for the fatherless , and for the widow .
28 : 40 Thou shalt have olive trees throughout all thy coasts , but thou shalt not anoint thyself with the oil ; for thine olive shall cast his fruit .
9 : 8 The trees went forth on a time to anoint a king over them ; and they said unto the olive tree , Reign thou over us .
9 : 9 But the olive tree said unto them , Should I leave my fatness , wherewith by me they honour God and man , and go to be promoted over the trees ?
6 : 23 And within the oracle he made two cherubims of olive tree , each ten cubits high .
6 : 31 And for the entering of the oracle he made doors of olive tree : the lintel and side posts were a fifth part of the wall .
6 : 32 The two doors also were of olive tree ; and he carved upon them carvings of cherubims and palm trees and open flowers , and overlaid them with gold , and spread gold upon the cherubims , and upon the palm trees .
6 : 33 So also made he for the door of the temple posts of olive tree , a fourth part of the wall .
18 : 31 Hearken not to Hezekiah : for thus saith the king of Assyria , Make an agreement with me by a present , and come out to me , and then eat ye every man of his own vine , and every one of his fig tree , and drink ye every one the waters of his cistern : 18 : 32 Until I come and take you away to a land like your own land , a land of corn and wine , a land of bread and vineyards , a land of oil olive and of honey , that ye may live , and not die : and hearken not unto Hezekiah , when he persuadeth you , saying , The LORD will deliver us .
27 : 25 And over the king ' s treasures was Azmaveth the son of Adiel : and over the storehouses in the fields , in the cities , and in the villages , and in the castles , was Jehonathan the son of Uzziah : 27 : 26 And over them that did the work of the field for tillage of the ground was Ezri the son of Chelub : 27 : 27 And over the vineyards was Shimei the Ramathite : over the increase of the vineyards for the wine cellars was Zabdi the Shiphmite : 27 : 28 And over the olive trees and the sycomore trees that were in the low plains was Baalhanan the Gederite : and over the cellars of oil was Joash : 27 : 29 And over the herds that fed in Sharon was Shitrai the Sharonite : and over the herds that were in the valleys was Shaphat the son of Adlai : 27 : 30 Over the camels also was Obil the Ishmaelite : and over the asses was Jehdeiah the Meronothite : 27 : 31 And over the flocks was Jaziz the Hagerite .
8 : 14 And they found written in the law which the LORD had commanded by Moses , that the children of Israel should dwell in booths in the feast of the seventh month : 8 : 15 And that they should publish and proclaim in all their cities , and in Jerusalem , saying , Go forth unto the mount , and fetch olive branches , and pine branches , and myrtle branches , and palm branches , and branches of thick trees , to make booths , as it is written .
15 : 33 He shall shake off his unripe grape as the vine , and shall cast off his flower as the olive .
52 : 8 But I am like a green olive tree in the house of God : I trust in the mercy of God for ever and ever .
128 : 3 Thy wife shall be as a fruitful vine by the sides of thine house : thy children like olive plants round about thy table .
17 : 6 Yet gleaning grapes shall be left in it , as the shaking of an olive tree , two or three berries in the top of the uppermost bough , four or five in the outmost fruitful branches thereof , saith the LORD God of Israel .
24 : 13 When thus it shall be in the midst of the land among the people , there shall be as the shaking of an olive tree , and as the gleaning grapes when the vintage is done .
11 : 16 The LORD called thy name , A green olive tree , fair , and of goodly fruit : with the noise of a great tumult he hath kindled fire upon it , and the branches of it are broken .
14 : 6 His branches shall spread , and his beauty shall be as the olive tree , and his smell as Lebanon .
4 : 9 I have smitten you with blasting and mildew : when your gardens and your vineyards and your fig trees and your olive trees increased , the palmerworm devoured them : yet have ye not returned unto me , saith the LORD .
3 : 17 Although the fig tree shall not blossom , neither shall fruit be in the vines ; the labour of the olive shall fail , and the fields shall yield no meat ; the flock shall be cut off from the fold , and there shall be no herd in the stalls : 3 : 18 Yet I will rejoice in the LORD , I will joy in the God of my salvation .
yea , as yet the vine , and the fig tree , and the pomegranate , and the olive tree , hath not brought forth : from this day will I bless you .
And I said , I have looked , and behold a candlestick all of gold , with a bowl upon the top of it , and his seven lamps thereon , and seven pipes to the seven lamps , which are upon the top thereof : 4 : 3 And two olive trees by it , one upon the right side of the bowl , and the other upon the left side thereof .
4 : 11 Then answered I , and said unto him , What are these two olive trees upon the right side of the candlestick and upon the left side thereof ?
4 : 12 And I answered again , and said unto him , What be these two olive branches which through the two golden pipes empty the golden oil out of themselves ?
11 : 17 And if some of the branches be broken off , and thou , being a wild olive tree , wert graffed in among them , and with them partakest of the root and fatness of the olive tree ; 11 : 18 Boast not against the branches .
11 : 24 For if thou wert cut out of the olive tree which is wild by nature , and wert graffed contrary to nature into a good olive tree : how much more shall these , which be the natural branches , be graffed into their own olive tree ?
3 : 12 Can the fig tree , my brethren , bear olive berries ?
11 : 4 These are the two olive trees , and the two candlesticks standing before the God of the earth .
There was once a farmer who had a fine olive orchard .
When the farmer was old , and felt that his time had come to die , he called the three sons to him and said , " My sons , there is a pot of gold hidden in the olive orchard .
The next olive season , the olive trees in the orchard bore more fruit than they had ever given before ; the fine cultivating they had had from the digging brought so much fruit , and of so fine a quality , that when it was sold it gave the sons a whole pot of gold !
" And I ," said the Olive , " I will sprinkle sweet - smelling oil over Him ."
The next moment he turned his olive , sneering face and made a movement with his hand .
Indeed , the black - haired young lady was letting her canoe float slowly and silently past the strange islet ; and was looking intently up at the strange tower , with a strong glow of curiosity on her oval and olive face .
Certainly it cannot be olive oil , nor macassar oil , nor castor oil , nor bear ' s oil , nor train oil , nor cod - liver oil .
In the length he attains , and in his baleen , the Fin - back resembles the right whale , but is of a less portly girth , and a lighter colour , approaching to olive .
On the quarter - deck , the mates and harpooneers were dancing with the olive - hued girls who had eloped with them from the Polynesian Isles ; while suspended in an ornamented boat , firmly secured aloft between the foremast and mainmast , three Long Island negroes , with glittering fiddle - bows of whale ivory , were presiding over the hilarious jig .
Forthwith from out the ark a raven flies , And after him , the surer messenger , A dove sent forth once and again to spy Green tree or ground , whereon his foot may light : The second time returning , in his bill An olive - leaf he brings , pacifick sign : Anon dry ground appears , and from his ark The ancient sire descends , with all his train ; Then with uplifted hands , and eyes devout , Grateful to Heaven , over his head beholds A dewy cloud , and in the cloud a bow Conspicuous with three lifted colours gay , Betokening peace from God , and covenant new .
You olive - grower tending your fruit on fields of Nazareth , Damascus , or lake Tiberias !
