It was much easier to chat than to study ; much pleasanter to let her imagination range and work at Harriet ' s fortune , than to be labouring to enlarge her comprehension or exercise it on sober facts ; and the only literary pursuit which engaged Harriet at present , the only mental provision she was making for the evening of life , was the collecting and transcribing all the riddles of every sort that she could meet with , into a thin quarto of hot - pressed paper , made up by her friend , and ornamented with ciphers and trophies .
He called for a few moments , just to leave a piece of paper on the table containing , as he said , a charade , which a friend of his had addressed to a young lady , the object of his admiration , but which , from his manner , Emma was immediately convinced must be his own .
" Take it ," said Emma , smiling , and pushing the paper towards Harriet --" it is for you .
She cast her eye over it , pondered , caught the meaning , read it through again to be quite certain , and quite mistress of the lines , and then passing it to Harriet , sat happily smiling , and saying to herself , while Harriet was puzzling over the paper in all the confusion of hope and dulness , " Very well , Mr . Elton , very well indeed .
Give me the paper and listen .
continued Harriet --" these two last !-- But how shall I ever be able to return the paper , or say I have found it out ?-- Oh !
If he had been anxious for secrecy , he would not have left the paper while I was by ; but he rather pushed it towards me than towards you .
A piece of paper was found on the table this morning --( dropt , we suppose , by a fairy )-- containing a very pretty charade , and we have just copied it in ."
He re - urged -- she re - declined ; and he seemed then about to make his bow , when taking the paper from the table , she returned it --
I was reading it to Mrs . Cole , and since she went away , I was reading it again to my mother , for it is such a pleasure to her -- a letter from Jane -- that she can never hear it often enough ; so I knew it could not be far off , and here it is , only just under my huswife -- and since you are so kind as to wish to hear what she says ;-- but , first of all , I really must , in justice to Jane , apologise for her writing so short a letter -- only two pages you see -- hardly two -- and in general she fills the whole paper and crosses half .
You see we have been wedging one leg with paper .
" Emma ," said she , " this paper is worse than I expected .
Within abundance of silver paper was a pretty little Tunbridge - ware box , which Harriet opened : it was well lined with the softest cotton ; but , excepting the cotton , Emma saw only a small piece of court - plaister .
" If we can persuade your father to all this ," said Lady Russell , looking over her paper , " much may be done .
On one side was a table occupied by some chattering girls , cutting up silk and gold paper ; and on the other were tressels and trays , bending under the weight of brawn and cold pies , where riotous boys were holding high revel ; the whole completed by a roaring Christmas fire , which seemed determined to be heard , in spite of all the noise of the others .
The Bath paper one morning announced the arrival of the Dowager Viscountess Dalrymple , and her daughter , the Honourable Miss Carteret ; and all the comfort of No .--, Camden Place , was swept away for many days ; for the Dalrymples ( in Anne ' s opinion , most unfortunately ) were cousins of the Elliots ; and the agony was how to introduce themselves properly .
He begged their pardon , but he had forgotten his gloves , and instantly crossing the room to the writing table , he drew out a letter from under the scattered paper , placed it before Anne with eyes of glowing entreaty fixed on her for a time , and hastily collecting his gloves , was again out of the room , almost before Mrs Musgrove was aware of his being in it : the work of an instant !
It had been gradually yielding to the better hopes which her looks , or words , or actions occasionally encouraged ; it had been vanquished at last by those sentiments and those tones which had reached him while she talked with Captain Harville ; and under the irresistible governance of which he had seized a sheet of paper , and poured out his feelings .
Last night after tea , when you and mama went out of the room , they were whispering and talking together as fast as could be , and he seemed to be begging something of her , and presently he took up her scissors and cut off a long lock of her hair , for it was all tumbled down her back ; and he kissed it , and folded it up in a piece of white paper ; and put it into his pocket - book ."
Lady Middleton could no longer endure such a conversation , and therefore exerted herself to ask Mr . Palmer if there was any news in the paper .
I am sure you will be glad to hear , as likewise dear Mrs . Jennings , I spent two happy hours with him yesterday afternoon , he would not hear of our parting , though earnestly did I , as I thought my duty required , urge him to it for prudence sake , and would have parted for ever on the spot , would he consent to it ; but he said it should never be , he did not regard his mother ' s anger , while he could have my affections ; our prospects are not very bright , to be sure , but we must wait , and hope for the best ; he will be ordained shortly ; and should it ever be in your power to recommend him to any body that has a living to bestow , am very sure you will not forget us , and dear Mrs . Jennings too , trust she will speak a good word for us to Sir John , or Mr . Palmer , or any friend that may be able to assist us .-- Poor Anne was much to blame for what she did , but she did it for the best , so I say nothing ; hope Mrs . Jennings won ' t think it too much trouble to give us a call , should she come this way any morning , ' twould be a great kindness , and my cousins would be proud to know her .-- My paper reminds me to conclude ; and begging to be most gratefully and respectfully remembered to her , and to Sir John , and Lady Middleton , and the dear children , when you chance to see them , and love to Miss Marianne ,
The particular circumstances between them made a difficulty of that which to any other person would have been the easiest thing in the world ; but she equally feared to say too much or too little , and sat deliberating over her paper , with the pen in her band , till broken in on by the entrance of Edward himself .
I have something of consequence to inform you of , which I was on the point of communicating by paper .
It happened to catch Sophia ' s eye before it caught mine -- and its size , the elegance of the paper , the hand - writing altogether , immediately gave her a suspicion .
He had nothing to urge against it , but still resisted the idea of a letter of proper submission ; and therefore , to make it easier to him , as he declared a much greater willingness to make mean concessions by word of mouth than on paper , it was resolved that , instead of writing to Fanny , he should go to London , and personally intreat her good offices in his favour .-- " And if they really DO interest themselves ," said Marianne , in her new character of candour , " in bringing about a reconciliation , I shall think that even John and Fanny are not entirely without merit ."
19 : 7 The paper reeds by the brooks , by the mouth of the brooks , and every thing sown by the brooks , shall wither , be driven away , and be no more .
1 : 12 Having many things to write unto you , I would not write with paper and ink : but I trust to come unto you , and speak face to face , that our joy may be full .
There , on the lowest shelf , behind some stone jars , stood a big paper bag of brown sugar .
The giant was made out of pillows , with a great , fierce head of paper , and funny clothes .
They made a wonderful big pumpkin out of the wheelbarrow , trimmed with yellow paper , and Cinderella rolled away in it , when the fairy godmother waved her wand .
That very evening , Margery ' s father took pencil and paper , and drew out a plan for her garden ; first , they talked it all over , then he drew what they decided on ; it looked like the diagram on the next page .
Stealing softly from the room he took paper and pen , for he had learnt to write , and spelt out , word after word , a letter which he addressed to the Christ Child .
He carried a big tin pail , and in the bottom of it , wrapped up in a piece of paper , was a lunch , for he meant to stay until he filled that pail , if it took all day .
There seemed to be no use in waiting by the little door , so she went back to the table , half hoping she might find another key on it , or at any rate a book of rules for shutting people up like telescopes : this time she found a little bottle on it , (' which certainly was not here before ,' said Alice ,) and round the neck of the bottle was a paper label , with the words ' DRINK ME ' beautifully printed on it in large letters .
' There ' s more evidence to come yet , please your Majesty ,' said the White Rabbit , jumping up in a great hurry ; ' this paper has just been picked up .'
He unfolded the paper as he spoke , and added ' It isn ' t a letter , after all : it ' s a set of verses .'
The jury all wrote down on their slates , ' SHE doesn ' t believe there ' s an atom of meaning in it ,' but none of them attempted to explain the paper .
The paper was unsuited to the atmosphere .
Even as it was , the document would not have shocked even the innocent Highlander , but for the troublesome and quite unforeseen fact that the innocent Highlander read it stolidly to the end ; a thing unknown among the most enthusiastic subscribers to the paper , and calculated in any case to create a new situation .
With a smart journalistic instinct characteristic of all his school , the editor of _The Atheist_ had put first in his paper and most prominently in his window an article called " The Mesopotamian Mythology and its Effects on Syriac Folk Lore ."
Someone was angry with the paper .
Letters under the heading , " Where are They ," poured in to every paper , with every conceivable kind of explanation , running them to earth in the Monument , the Twopenny Tube , Epping Forest , Westminster Abbey , rolled up in carpets at Shoolbreds , locked up in safes in Chancery Lane .
Caught upon its prickly angle , however , there was a very small and very dirty scrap of paper that might have hung there for months , since it escaped from someone tearing up a letter or making a spill out of a newspaper .
Look at this little message ," and he held out the scrap of paper .
The lines of his face were so deep and complex that one could see five or ten different faces besides the real one , as one can see them in an elaborate wall - paper .
Thus , we usually do not keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition .
" Rabbits , ribbons , sweetmeats , goldfish , rolls of coloured paper ," said the reverend gentleman with rapidity .
One of them held a large paper in his hand .
The brigand captain took the large paper from the attendant brigand and , glancing over it , continued : " My other intentions are clearly set forth in this public document , which I will hand round in a moment ; and which after that will be posted on a tree by every village in the valley , and every cross - road in the hills .
Another order was given ; there was a noise of dismounting , and a tall officer with cocked hat , a grey imperial , and a paper in his hand appeared in the gap that was the gate of the Paradise of Thieves .
We caught a German spy in the Vosges yesterday , and a paper was found on him -- a paper I hold in my hand .
" Is the paper a forgery , then ?"
It says the paper is in the cupboard on the right of the Secretary ' s desk .
It ' s manifestly absurd to say that Hirsch can have made a mistake about a paper that nobody knew of but himself ; or can have tried to help a foreign thief by telling him to fumble in the wrong drawer .
You ' d expect a secret paper passing between such people , officials or officers , to look quite different from that .
You could not get away from hearing of him wherever you were ; his portrait was on every other postcard ; his maps and battles in every other illustrated paper ; songs in his honour in every other music - hall turn or on every other barrel - organ .
There is no reason why anybody in America should want to kill an English lord newly landed , except for the one reason mentioned in the pink paper -- that the lord is paying his attentions to the millionaire ' s daughter .
Your pink paper says that the title was recently revived for him ; but those papers are very unreliable .
Under the pink slip Mr Usher found a strip of a later paper , headed , " Astounding Escape of Millionaire ' s Daughter with Convict .
Often he would not trouble to dress for his simple meals ; but pattered about among the corded brown - paper parcels ( which no one else was allowed to touch ) in an old brown dressing - gown .
But Flambeau , as he bowed and sat down , handed the priest a small slip of paper .
What I did next does matter : I gave him all the money I had , including a good deal in paper which , though it was mine , I dare say I had no right to touch .
Across the table the body of the man in the brown dressing - gown lay amid his burst and gaping brown - paper parcels ; out of which poured and rolled , not Roman , but very modern English coins .
His life was a series of distracted compromises between the proprietor of the paper ( and of him ), who was a senile soap - boiler with three ineradicable mistakes in his mind , and the very able staff he had collected to run the paper ; some of whom were brilliant and experienced men and ( what was even worse ) sincere enthusiasts for the political policy of the paper .
As Miss Barlow rattled away cheerfully , he crumpled up the copy and tossed it into the waste - paper basket ; but not before he had , automatically and by force of habit , altered the word " God " to the word " circumstances ."
All these trivialities Brown heard and saw ; but heard them as a tired man hears a tune in the railway wheels , or saw them as a sick man sees the pattern of his wall - paper .
Put the same feather with an ink - bottle , a book and a stack of writing - paper , and most men will swear they ' ve seen a quill pen .
And vinegar "-- and producing that condiment -- " haven ' t I heard something about vinegar and brown paper ?
His name , which came out in the course of talk , was James Dalroy ; he was the son of a bankrupt Irish landlord , and attached to a pink paper which he heartily despised , called Smart Society , in the capacity of reporter and of something painfully like a spy .
They began to attract attention , especially in America , and one paper wanted to interview him .
The instant the election was ended and irrevocable , and Syme had received the paper proving his election , they all sprang to their feet , and the fiery groups moved and mixed in the room .
He poured perpetually into newspapers and their waste - paper baskets a torrent of tales , verses and violent articles , warning men of this deluge of barbaric denial .
The policeman impassively consulted a paper in his hand , ' No , sir ,' he said civilly , ' at least , not exactly , sir .
" Pull yourself together , and chuck away that bit of paper .
" Oh , don ' t show it us ," he said wearily ; " we ' ve got enough of them to equip a paper - chase ."
" Candidates ," murmured Sunday , " are only required to answer eight out of the seventeen questions on the paper .
Then raising his right hand swiftly , he flung a ball of paper in Syme ' s face and vanished .
On examination , however , its bulk was found to consist of thirty - three pieces of paper of no value wrapped one round the other .
When the last covering was torn away it reduced itself to a small slip of paper , on which was written :--
He held out with distaste a piece of folded paper , addressed : " To the Secretary of the Central Anarchist Council ."
He put up a trembling hand and took from that shelf a piece of twisted paper , which he opened absently only to find it inscribed with a true lover ' s knot and , the words :--
Being now settled in their house , they went every day regularly to work ; Maud spun nine cuts a day , besides doing all that was to be done in the house ; Edmund got fourpence a day by his work ; and Peggy and Annie earned twopence apiece at the paper - mills near Navan , where they were employed to sort rags , and to cut them into small pieces .
When they had done work one day , Annie went to the master of the paper - mill and asked him if she might have two sheets of large white paper which were lying on the press .
She offered a penny for the paper ; but the master would not take anything from her , but gave her the paper when he found that she wanted it to make a garland for her mother ' s grave .
Pomfret ," said she , opening the housekeeper ' s room door , " have you a bit of paper ?"
Pomfret came with the writing - paper , and looked very angry to see that Felix was going out without her knowledge ; so , while Mrs . Churchill was writing the direction , she stood talking to him about it ; whilst he , in the greatest terror imaginable , looked up in her face as she spoke ; but was all the time intent on parrying on the other side the attacks of a little French dog of his mistress ', which , unluckily for him , had followed her into the passage .
But Manchon knew better -- he had now got his head into Felix ' s pocket , and would not be quiet till he had drawn from thence , rustling out of its brown paper , half a cold turkey , which had been missing since morning .
The table was covered with little square bits of paper , on which she had been writing bills over and over again , when her father came in with a bill in his hand .
She selected the prettiest ; and whilst the man was rolling it in paper , she asked him several questions about Susan and her family , which he was delighted to answer , because he had now all opportunity of saying as much as he wished in her praise .
No sooner had he received the ten guineas , his well merited prize , than he retired to a small room belonging to the people of the house , asked for pen , ink and paper , and dictated , in a low voice , to his boy , who was a tolerably good scribe , a letter , which he ordered him to put directly into the Shrewsbury post - office .
said he , opening a paper that was inclosed in the letter .
" However , I can show you , Sir Arthur , just for my own satisfaction and yours , a few lines of a memorandum on a slip of paper , which was given me by your relation , the gentleman who lived here before , and let me my farm .
You ' ll see , by that bit of paper , what was meant ; but the attorney says , the paper ' s not worth a button in a court of justice , and I don ' t understand these things .
The work was at a stand for want of some filigree - paper , and , as her mother was going out , she asked her to take her with her , that she might buy some .
" Stay ," interrupted her sister , for Rosamond , anticipating the glories of her work - basket , talked and walked so fast that she had passed , without perceiving it , the shop where the filigree - paper was to be bought .
A coach full of ladies stopped at the door , just before they went in , so that no one had time immediately to think of Rosamond and her filigree - paper , and she went to the window where she saw her sister Laura looking earnestly at something that was passing in the lane .
At this instant her mother said to Rosamond --" Come , now , my dear , if you want this filigree paper , buy it ."
The carriage was at the door -- Laura came running to call her ; her father ' s voice was heard at the same instant ; so she was obliged to go down with her basket but half wrapped up in silver paper -- a circumstance at which she was a good deal disconcerted ; for the pleasure of surprising Bell would be utterly lost if one bit of the filigree should peep out before the proper time .
As the carriage went on , Rosamond pulled the paper to one side and to the other , and by each of the four corners .
" I am afraid you will never make a sheet of paper cover a box which is twice as large as itself ."
said she , with increased vehemence , when , after drawing aside the veil of silver paper , she saw him grasp the myrtle wreathed handle .
( After a pause , he tears the paper .)
Violetta ( looking at a paper which Louisa holds ).
The seedsman looked out all the seeds that Maurice wanted , and packed them up in paper : he was folding up some painted lady - peas , when , from a door at the back of the shop , there came in a square , rough - faced man , who exclaimed , the moment he came in , " Are the seeds I ordered ready ?-- The wind ' s fair -- they ought to have been aboard yesterday .
Here , my good lad , take your parcel , and sheer off ," said the impatient man ; and , as he spoke , he took up the parcel of seeds from the counter , as the shopman stooped to look for a sheet of thick brown paper and packthread to tie it up .
The parcel was but loosely folded up , and as the impatient man lifted it , the weight of the peas which were withinside of it burst the paper , and all the seeds fell out upon the floor , whilst Maurice in vain held his hands to catch them .
" And here ," continued Arthur , " is something written with a pencil , on a slip of paper , and it is Maurice ' s writing .
Ben folded the refuse bit of his cousin ' s bun in a piece of paper , and put it into his pocket .
" I can show you when we go home , Ben ," said his uncle , " an entertaining paper upon such shadows .
The old woman was sitting up in her wretched bed , winding worsted ; four meagre , ill - clothed , pale children were all busy , some of them sticking pins in paper for the pin - maker , and others sorting rags for the paper - maker .
cried Marianne , " she ' s so good - humoured , don ' t tease her any more , and don ' t draw heads upon her paper , and don ' t stretch her india - rubber , and don ' t let us dirty any more of her brushes .
A new carpenter and paper hanger , recommended by Fisher , were appointed to attend , with their tools , for orders , at two o ' clock .
The paper and the festoon - bordering for the drawing room scene is cut out , and left yAnder within ."
Lend me a pencil and a bit of paper , do ; I ' ll write down what I want myself !
" Nothing , nothing ," said Fisher , " here , write upon this , then ," said Fisher , putting a piece of paper into Archer ' s hand , upon which Archer wrote his orders .
Now , having made a list of their wants , they folded the money in the paper , put it into a bag , which Archer tied to a long string , and , having broken the pane of glass behind the round hole in the window - shutter , he let down the bag to the gipsy .
Do you know this paper ?"
-- the paper appeared to be a bill for candles and a tinder - box .
Youth and white paper , as the proverb says , take all impressions .
After school in the evening , as he was standing silently beside Hardy , who was ruling a sheet of paper for him , Tarlton , in his brutal manner , came up , and seizing him by the arm , cried , " Come along with me , Loveit , I ' ve something to say to you ."
He then went about his evening prayers , took out his idol , and removed the paper fireboard .
There is more sand there than you would use in twenty years as a substitute for blotting paper .
But at this question , Queequeg , who had twice or thrice before taken part in similar ceremonies , looked no ways abashed ; but taking the offered pen , copied upon the paper , in the proper place , an exact counterpart of a queer round figure which was tattooed upon his arm ; so that through Captain Peleg ' s obstinate mistake touching his appellative , it stood something like this :--
As for Bildad , he carried about with him a long list of the articles needed , and at every fresh arrival , down went his mark opposite that article upon the paper .
So Owen rechristened the monster Zeuglodon ; and in his paper read before the London Geological Society , pronounced it , in substance , one of the most extraordinary creatures which the mutations of the globe have blotted out of existence .
So , so ; chisel , file , and sand - paper , now !
Good Cinna , take this Paper , And looke you lay it in the Pretors Chayre , Where Brutus may but finde it : and throw this In at his Window ; set this vp with Waxe Vpon old Brutus Statue : all this done , Repaire to Pompeyes Porch , where you shall finde vs . Is Decius Brutus and Trebonius there ?
The Taper burneth in your Closet , Sir : Searching the Window for a Flint , I found This Paper , thus seal ' d vp , and I am sure It did not lye there when I went to Bed .
Since his Maiesty went into the Field , I haue seene her rise from her bed , throw her Night - Gown vppon her , vnlocke her Closset , take foorth paper , folde it , write vpon ' t , read it , afterwards Seale it , and againe returne to bed ; yet all this while in a most fast sleepe
Let the paper remain on the desk unwritten , and the book on the shelf unopen ' d !
Or by an agreement on a paper ?
To hold men together by paper and seal or by compulsion is no account , That only holds men together which aggregates all in a living principle , as the hold of the limbs of the body or the fibres of plants .
Kosmos , Quicksand Years , or Thoughts , Thou Mother with thy Equal Brood ," and many , many more unspecified , From fibre heart of mine -- from throat and tongue --( My life ' s hot pulsing blood , The personal urge and form for me -- not merely paper , automatic type and ink ,) Each song of mine -- each utterance in the past -- having its long , long history , Of life or death , or soldier ' s wound , of country ' s loss or safety , ( O heaven !
