Here ,-- probably this basket with pink ribbon .
But why should not I wear pink ribbons ?
There were strings of white fluffy stuff drooping around him ; his twigs held little gold nuts and pink , rosy balls and silver stars ; he had pretty little pink and white candles in his arms ; but last , and most wonderful of all , the children hung a beautiful white , floating doll - angel over his head !
They came up to the Little Fir Tree and quickly lighted all the little pink and white candles .
Elsa stretched out her pretty pink fingers .
they were all hidden away in her little pink fingers , a fairy in every finger !
" Flowers ," said Margery , with shining eyes ,--" blue , and white , and yellow , and pink ,-- every kind of flower !"
Ever since the first pink blush of dawn , the modest Dewdrop had gazed fixedly down upon the rich gem , but feared to address a person of such exalted consequence .
So she was considering in her own mind ( as well as she could , for the hot day made her feel very sleepy and stupid ), whether the pleasure of making a daisy - chain would be worth the trouble of getting up and picking the daisies , when suddenly a White Rabbit with pink eyes ran close by her .
The shape of their old friend the constable had appeared against the pearl and pink of the sunrise .
When you were fool enough to agree to fight MacIan , after all , everybody was ready to believe that the Bank of England might paint itself pink with white spots ."
This figure was clad in tweeds of a piebald check , with a pink tie , a sharp collar and protuberant yellow boots .
It was an Italian head : fuzzy , swarthy and very vivacious , that rose abruptly out of the standing collar like cardboard and the comic pink tie .
There is no reason why anybody in America should want to kill an English lord newly landed , except for the one reason mentioned in the pink paper -- that the lord is paying his attentions to the millionaire ' s daughter .
Then he picked up the pink slip of newspaper .
Your pink paper says that the title was recently revived for him ; but those papers are very unreliable .
Next morning Father Brown appeared with the same demure expression , carrying yet another piece of pink newspaper .
Under the pink slip Mr Usher found a strip of a later paper , headed , " Astounding Escape of Millionaire ' s Daughter with Convict .
His complexion was neither sallow nor livid , but on the contrary rather clear and youthful ; yet this gave a pink - and - white wax look which somehow ( I don ' t know why ) rather increased the horror .
His name , which came out in the course of talk , was James Dalroy ; he was the son of a bankrupt Irish landlord , and attached to a pink paper which he heartily despised , called Smart Society , in the capacity of reporter and of something painfully like a spy .
Even the grey - ribbed trees looked young , for the pointed buds on them were still pink , and in a pattern against the strong blue looked like innumerable childish figures .
A slight breeze stirred the budding trees and blew up into the sky cloudlets of white and pink that seemed to make the sky bluer and the whole coloured scene more quaint .
The little pink clouds , that looked rather like sweet - stuff , had floated up to crown the turrets of the gilt gingerbread castle , and the pink baby fingers of the budding trees seemed spreading and stretching to reach them ; the blue sky began to take a bright violet of evening , when Father Brown suddenly spoke again :
And he ruminated long before the portrait of a white - haired man with black eyebrows and a pink , painted sort of smile that seemed to contradict the black warning in his eyes .
Across the great part of the dome they were grey , with the strangest tints of violet and mauve and an unnatural pink or pale green ; but towards the west the whole grew past description , transparent and passionate , and the last red - hot plumes of it covered up the sun like something too good to be seen .
" You great silly , pink - faced , towheaded turnip !
" The word , I fancy , should be ' pink '."
The setting sun shone full upon the pink blossoms of the hawthorn , when the merry group assembled upon their little green .
" Mr . Routh , pink and silver , Spanish hat .
Do not fold yourself so in your pink - tinged roots timid leaves !
The world below the brine , Forests at the bottom of the sea , the branches and leaves , Sea - lettuce , vast lichens , strange flowers and seeds , the thick tangle openings , and pink turf , Different colors , pale gray and green , purple , white , and gold , the play of light through the water , Dumb swimmers there among the rocks , coral , gluten , grass , rushes , and the aliment of the swimmers , Sluggish existences grazing there suspended , or slowly crawling close to the bottom , The sperm - whale at the surface blowing air and spray , or disporting with his flukes , The leaden - eyed shark , the walrus , the turtle , the hairy sea - leopard , and the sting - ray , Passions there , wars , pursuits , tribes , sight in those ocean - depths , breathing that thick - breathing air , as so many do , The change thence to the sight here , and to the subtle air breathed by beings like us who walk this sphere , The change onward from ours to that of beings who walk other spheres .
5 Over the breast of the spring , the land , amid cities , Amid lanes and through old woods , where lately the violets peep ' d from the ground , spotting the gray debris , Amid the grass in the fields each side of the lanes , passing the endless grass , Passing the yellow - spear ' d wheat , every grain from its shroud in the dark - brown fields uprisen , Passing the apple - tree blows of white and pink in the orchards , Carrying a corpse to where it shall rest in the grave , Night and day journeys a coffin .
The early lilacs became part of this child , And grass and white and red morning - glories , and white and red clover , and the song of the phoebe - bird , And the Third - month lambs and the sow ' s pink - faint litter , and the mare ' s foal and the cow ' s calf , And the noisy brood of the barnyard or by the mire of the pond - side , And the fish suspending themselves so curiously below there , and the beautiful curious liquid , And the water - plants with their graceful flat heads , all became part of him .
Somehow I cannot let it go yet , funeral though it is , Let it remain back there on its nail suspended , With pink , blue , yellow , all blanch ' d , and the white now gray and ashy , One wither ' d rose put years ago for thee , dear friend ; But I do not forget thee .
