Behind the cottage were apple trees , a plum tree , and two or three pear trees ; then came a stretch of rough grass , and then a stone wall , with a gate leading into the fields .
There was in Grant ' s garden a plum - tree , which was planted close to the loose stone wall that divided the garden from the nursery .
The soil in which the plum tree was planted happened not to be quite so good as that which was on the opposite side of the wall , and the plum - tree had forced its way through the wall , and gradually had taken possession of the ground which it liked best .
Oakly thought the plum - tree , as it belonged to Mr . Grant , had no right to make its appearance on his ground : an attorney told him that he might oblige Grant to cut it down ; but Mr . Grant refused to cut down his plum - tree at the attorney ' s desire , and the attorney persuaded Oakly to go to law about the business , and the lawsuit went on for some months .
The plum - tree does me little or no damage , but I don ' t like to be imposed upon by a Scotchman ."
It was soon after this conversation with the attorney that Mr . Oakly walked , with resolute steps , towards the plum - tree , saying to himself , " If it cost me a hundred pounds I will not let this cunning Scotchman get the better of me ."
Here Arthur was interrupted by the attorney , who came to ask Mr . Oakly some question about the lawsuit concerning the plum - tree .
" My good sir , don ' t you see , that all this stuff about Brobdingnag raspberries is to ward off your suit about the plum - tree ?
said Oakly , staring round him at the plum - tree ; " but I don ' t know what you mean .
I don ' t mean to ask for any good round sum ; for the plum - tree has done me no great harm by coming into my garden ; but only I don ' t choose it should come there without my leave ."
Oakly laughed at his own folly , in having been persuaded to go to law about the plum - tree ; and he , in process of time , so completely conquered his early prejudice against Scotchmen , that he and Grant became partners in business .
One morning it was left quite wide open , when she stopped to say " Pretty Poll "; and immediately Mrs . Tattle begged she would do her the honour to walk in and see " Pretty Poll ," at the same time taking the liberty to offer her a piece of iced plum - cake .
The next day Mrs . Theresa Tattle did herself the honour to wait upon Mrs . Montague , " to apologize for the liberty she taken in inviting Mrs . Montague ' s charming Miss Marianne into her apartment to see Pretty Poll , and for the still greater liberty she had taken in offering her a piece of plum - cake -- inconsiderate creature that she was !-- which might possibly have disagreed with her , and which certainly were liberties she never should have been induced to take , if she had not been unaccountably bewitched by Miss Marianne ' s striking though highly flattering resemblance to a young gentleman ( an officer ) with whom she had danced , now nearly twelve years ago , of the name of Montague , a most respectable young man , and of a most respectable family , with which , in a remote degree , she might presume to say , she herself was someway connected , having the honour to be nearly related to the Joneses of Merionethshire , who were cousins to the Mainwarings of Bedfordshire , who married into the family of the Griffiths , the eldest branch of which , she understood , had the honour to be cousin - german to Mr . Montague ; on which account she had been impatient to pay a visit , so likely to be productive of most agreeable consequences , by the acquisition of an acquaintance whose society must do her infinite honour ."
Do you think she would ever jump up , with all her nicety , too , and put by all these things , to go down into the greasy kitchen , and plump up to the elbows in suet , like a cook , for a plum - pudding ?"
Oh , brother , she can do anything ; and she could make the best plum - pudding in the whole world , I ' m sure , in a minute , if it were necessary ."
" Nor I , either ," said the time serving Fisher , sidling up to the manager , and picking the ice off a piece of plum - cake , " nor I either ; I hate puns .
I told you then that I could not afford to buy such things for you ; but now that you can earn halfpence for yourselves , children , it is fair should taste a ripe plum and bit of gingerbread for once and a way in your lives ."
After sitting a long time listening to the long stories of some sailors who had just come from a plum - pudding voyage , as they called it ( that is , a short whaling - voyage in a schooner or brig , confined to the north of the line , in the Atlantic Ocean only ); after listening to these plum - puddingers till nearly eleven o ' clock , I went up stairs to go to bed , feeling quite sure by this time Queequeg must certainly have brought his Ramadan to a termination .
Plum - pudding is the term bestowed upon certain fragmentary parts of the whale ' s flesh , here and there adhering to the blanket of blubber , and often participating to a considerable degree in its unctuousness .
Slanders Sir : for the Satyricall slaue saies here , that old men haue gray Beards ; that their faces are wrinkled ; their eyes purging thicke Amber , or Plum - Tree Gumme : and that they haue a plentifull locke of Wit , together with weake Hammes .
And twigs of maple and a bunch of wild orange and chestnut , And stems of currants and plum - blows , and the aromatic cedar , These I compass ' d around by a thick cloud of spirits , Wandering , point to or touch as I pass , or throw them loosely from me , Indicating to each one what he shall have , giving something to each ; But what I drew from the water by the pond - side , that I reserve , I will give of it , but only to them that love as I myself am capable of loving .
Thou shalt perceive the simple shows , the delicate miracles of earth , Dandelions , clover , the emerald grass , the early scents and flowers , The arbutus under foot , the willow ' s yellow - green , the blossoming plum and cherry ; With these the robin , lark and thrush , singing their songs -- the flitting bluebird ; For such the scenes the annual play brings on .
