Emma saw symptoms of it immediately in the expression of her face ; and while paying her own compliments to Mrs . Bates , and appearing to attend to the good old lady ' s replies , she saw her with a sort of anxious parade of mystery fold up a letter which she had apparently been reading aloud to Miss Fairfax , and return it into the purple and gold reticule by her side , saying , with significant nods ,
25 : 3 And this is the offering which ye shall take of them ; gold , and silver , and brass , 25 : 4 And blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine linen , and goats ' hair , 25 : 5 And rams ' skins dyed red , and badgers ' skins , and shittim wood , 25 : 6 Oil for the light , spices for anointing oil , and for sweet incense , 25 : 7 Onyx stones , and stones to be set in the ephod , and in the breastplate .
26 : 1 Moreover thou shalt make the tabernacle with ten curtains of fine twined linen , and blue , and purple , and scarlet : with cherubims of cunning work shalt thou make them .
26 : 31 And thou shalt make a vail of blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine twined linen of cunning work : with cherubims shall it be made : 26 : 32 And thou shalt hang it upon four pillars of shittim wood overlaid with gold : their hooks shall be of gold , upon the four sockets of silver .
26 : 36 And thou shalt make an hanging for the door of the tent , of blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine twined linen , wrought with needlework .
27 : 16 And for the gate of the court shall be an hanging of twenty cubits , of blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine twined linen , wrought with needlework : and their pillars shall be four , and their sockets four .
28 : 5 And they shall take gold , and blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine linen .
28 : 6 And they shall make the ephod of gold , of blue , and of purple , of scarlet , and fine twined linen , with cunning work .
28 : 8 And the curious girdle of the ephod , which is upon it , shall be of the same , according to the work thereof ; even of gold , of blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine twined linen .
28 : 15 And thou shalt make the breastplate of judgment with cunning work ; after the work of the ephod thou shalt make it ; of gold , of blue , and of purple , and of scarlet , and of fine twined linen , shalt thou make it .
28 : 33 And beneath upon the hem of it thou shalt make pomegranates of blue , and of purple , and of scarlet , round about the hem thereof ; and bells of gold between them round about : 28 : 34 A golden bell and a pomegranate , a golden bell and a pomegranate , upon the hem of the robe round about .
35 : 4 And Moses spake unto all the congregation of the children of Israel , saying , This is the thing which the LORD commanded , saying , 35 : 5 Take ye from among you an offering unto the LORD : whosoever is of a willing heart , let him bring it , an offering of the LORD ; gold , and silver , and brass , 35 : 6 And blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine linen , and goats ' hair , 35 : 7 And rams ' skins dyed red , and badgers ' skins , and shittim wood , 35 : 8 And oil for the light , and spices for anointing oil , and for the sweet incense , 35 : 9 And onyx stones , and stones to be set for the ephod , and for the breastplate .
35 : 23 And every man , with whom was found blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine linen , and goats ' hair , and red skins of rams , and badgers ' skins , brought them .
35 : 25 And all the women that were wise hearted did spin with their hands , and brought that which they had spun , both of blue , and of purple , and of scarlet , and of fine linen .
35 : 35 Them hath he filled with wisdom of heart , to work all manner of work , of the engraver , and of the cunning workman , and of the embroiderer , in blue , and in purple , in scarlet , and in fine linen , and of the weaver , even of them that do any work , and of those that devise cunning work .
36 : 8 And every wise hearted man among them that wrought the work of the tabernacle made ten curtains of fine twined linen , and blue , and purple , and scarlet : with cherubims of cunning work made he them .
36 : 35 And he made a vail of blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine twined linen : with cherubims made he it of cunning work .
36 : 37 And he made an hanging for the tabernacle door of blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine twined linen , of needlework ; 36 : 38 And the five pillars of it with their hooks : and he overlaid their chapiters and their fillets with gold : but their five sockets were of brass .
38 : 18 And the hanging for the gate of the court was needlework , of blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine twined linen : and twenty cubits was the length , and the height in the breadth was five cubits , answerable to the hangings of the court .
38 : 23 And with him was Aholiab , son of Ahisamach , of the tribe of Dan , an engraver , and a cunning workman , and an embroiderer in blue , and in purple , and in scarlet , and fine linen .
39 : 1 And of the blue , and purple , and scarlet , they made cloths of service , to do service in the holy place , and made the holy garments for Aaron ; as the LORD commanded Moses .
39 : 2 And he made the ephod of gold , blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine twined linen .
39 : 3 And they did beat the gold into thin plates , and cut it into wires , to work it in the blue , and in the purple , and in the scarlet , and in the fine linen , with cunning work .
39 : 5 And the curious girdle of his ephod , that was upon it , was of the same , according to the work thereof ; of gold , blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine twined linen ; as the LORD commanded Moses .
39 : 8 And he made the breastplate of cunning work , like the work of the ephod ; of gold , blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine twined linen .
39 : 24 And they made upon the hems of the robe pomegranates of blue , and purple , and scarlet , and twined linen .
39 : 27 And they made coats of fine linen of woven work for Aaron , and for his sons , 39 : 28 And a mitre of fine linen , and goodly bonnets of fine linen , and linen breeches of fine twined linen , 39 : 29 And a girdle of fine twined linen , and blue , and purple , and scarlet , of needlework ; as the LORD commanded Moses .
4 : 11 And upon the golden altar they shall spread a cloth of blue , and cover it with a covering of badgers ' skins , and shall put to the staves thereof : 4 : 12 And they shall take all the instruments of ministry , wherewith they minister in the sanctuary , and put them in a cloth of blue , and cover them with a covering of badgers ' skins , and shall put them on a bar : 4 : 13 And they shall take away the ashes from the altar , and spread a purple cloth thereon : 4 : 14 And they shall put upon it all the vessels thereof , wherewith they minister about it , even the censers , the fleshhooks , and the shovels , and the basons , all the vessels of the altar ; and they shall spread upon it a covering of badgers ' skins , and put to the staves of it .
8 : 26 And the weight of the golden earrings that he requested was a thousand and seven hundred shekels of gold ; beside ornaments , and collars , and purple raiment that was on the kings of Midian , and beside the chains that were about their camels ' necks .
2 : 7 Send me now therefore a man cunning to work in gold , and in silver , and in brass , and in iron , and in purple , and crimson , and blue , and that can skill to grave with the cunning men that are with me in Judah and in Jerusalem , whom David my father did provide .
2 : 13 And now I have sent a cunning man , endued with understanding , of Huram my father ' s , 2 : 14 The son of a woman of the daughters of Dan , and his father was a man of Tyre , skilful to work in gold , and in silver , in brass , in iron , in stone , and in timber , in purple , in blue , and in fine linen , and in crimson ; also to grave any manner of graving , and to find out every device which shall be put to him , with thy cunning men , and with the cunning men of my lord David thy father .
3 : 14 And he made the vail of blue , and purple , and crimson , and fine linen , and wrought cherubims thereon .
1 : 5 And when these days were expired , the king made a feast unto all the people that were present in Shushan the palace , both unto great and small , seven days , in the court of the garden of the king ' s palace ; 1 : 6 Where were white , green , and blue , hangings , fastened with cords of fine linen and purple to silver rings and pillars of marble : the beds were of gold and silver , upon a pavement of red , and blue , and white , and black , marble .
8 : 15 And Mordecai went out from the presence of the king in royal apparel of blue and white , and with a great crown of gold , and with a garment of fine linen and purple : and the city of Shushan rejoiced and was glad .
31 : 22 She maketh herself coverings of tapestry ; her clothing is silk and purple .
3 : 10 He made the pillars thereof of silver , the bottom thereof of gold , the covering of it of purple , the midst thereof being paved with love , for the daughters of Jerusalem .
7 : 5 Thine head upon thee is like Carmel , and the hair of thine head like purple ; the king is held in the galleries .
10 : 9 Silver spread into plates is brought from Tarshish , and gold from Uphaz , the work of the workman , and of the hands of the founder : blue and purple is their clothing : they are all the work of cunning men .
27 : 7 Fine linen with broidered work from Egypt was that which thou spreadest forth to be thy sail ; blue and purple from the isles of Elishah was that which covered thee .
27 : 16 Syria was thy merchant by reason of the multitude of the wares of thy making : they occupied in thy fairs with emeralds , purple , and broidered work , and fine linen , and coral , and agate .
15 : 17 And they clothed him with purple , and platted a crown of thorns , and put it about his head , 15 : 18 And began to salute him , Hail , King of the Jews !
15 : 20 And when they had mocked him , they took off the purple from him , and put his own clothes on him , and led him out to crucify him .
16 : 19 There was a certain rich man , which was clothed in purple and fine linen , and fared sumptuously every day : 16 : 20 And there was a certain beggar named Lazarus , which was laid at his gate , full of sores , 16 : 21 And desiring to be fed with the crumbs which fell from the rich man ' s table : moreover the dogs came and licked his sores .
19 : 2 And the soldiers platted a crown of thorns , and put it on his head , and they put on him a purple robe , 19 : 3 And said , Hail , King of the Jews !
19 : 5 Then came Jesus forth , wearing the crown of thorns , and the purple robe .
16 : 14 And a certain woman named Lydia , a seller of purple , of the city of Thyatira , which worshipped God , heard us : whose heart the Lord opened , that she attended unto the things which were spoken of Paul .
17 : 4 And the woman was arrayed in purple and scarlet colour , and decked with gold and precious stones and pearls , having a golden cup in her hand full of abominations and filthiness of her fornication : 17 : 5 And upon her forehead was a name written , MYSTERY , BABYLON THE GREAT , THE MOTHER OF HARLOTS AND ABOMINATIONS OF THE EARTH .
18 : 11 And the merchants of the earth shall weep and mourn over her ; for no man buyeth their merchandise any more : 18 : 12 The merchandise of gold , and silver , and precious stones , and of pearls , and fine linen , and purple , and silk , and scarlet , and all thyine wood , and all manner vessels of ivory , and all manner vessels of most precious wood , and of brass , and iron , and marble , 18 : 13 And cinnamon , and odours , and ointments , and frankincense , and wine , and oil , and fine flour , and wheat , and beasts , and sheep , and horses , and chariots , and slaves , and souls of men .
18 : 15 The merchants of these things , which were made rich by her , shall stand afar off for the fear of her torment , weeping and wailing , 18 : 16 And saying , Alas , alas that great city , that was clothed in fine linen , and purple , and scarlet , and decked with gold , and precious stones , and pearls !
said the Queen , turning purple .
Now , through a sort of purple haze , could be seen comparatively near to them what seemed to be the upper part of a huge , dark orb or sphere , islanded in a sea of cloud .
In the sumptuous sunset of gold and purple and peacock green cloudlets and islets were the same .
Legends of the morning of the world which he had heard in childhood or read in youth came back upon him in a cloudy splendour , purple tales of wrath and friendship , like Roland and Oliver , or Balin and Balan , reminding him of emotional entanglements .
As MacIan , a tall , almost ghostly figure , paced along the edge of sand that ran round the islet , the purple but cloudy poetry which was his native element was piled up at its thickest upon his soul .
MacIan looked at the silver sunset that was closing in , barred by plumy lines of purple cloud ; he looked at the high tree - tops that caught the last light and at the birds going heavily homeward , just as if all these things were bits of written advice that he could read .
Purple and crimson rhododendrons rose arrogantly , like rampant heraldic animals against their burning background of laburnum gold .
Higher yet in the purple hollow of the night the topmost flames leapt again and again fruitlessly at the stars , like golden dragons chained but struggling .
The scattered houses stood farther and farther apart in a broken string along the seashore ; the afternoon was closing with a premature and partly lurid twilight ; the sea was of an inky purple and murmuring ominously .
But there was something in the crazy and gorgeous ascent , amid crags like peaks loaded with woods like orchards , that dragged her spirit up alone with his into purple preposterous heavens with wheeling suns .
At the moment when the gorgeous mountain walls went round the poet ' s head like a purple windmill a thing happened which was superficially even more startling .
It was a scarf of strong dead colours , dark red and old gold and purple , probably of Oriental fabrication .
But this thing ' s elaborately simple , like a penny dreadful : ` In the purple grotto you will find the golden casket .'
The tops of trees , mostly rather depressing evergreens , showed at intervals over the top of the wall , and beyond them in the grey and purple gloaming could be seen the back of some long terrace of tall Parisian houses , really comparatively close , but somehow looking as inaccessible as a range of marble mountains .
Then he threw up his long arms and swung himself aloft like a monkey and stood on the top of the wall , his enormous figure dark against the purple sky , like the dark tree - tops .
The Purple Wig
His lank limbs were clad , I might also say clutched , in very tight grey sleeves and pantaloons ; he had a long , sallow , aquiline face which seemed somehow all the more saturnine because his lantern jaws were imprisoned in his collar and neck - cloth more in the style of the old stock ; and his hair ( which ought to have been dark brown ) was of an odd dim , russet colour which , in conjunction with his yellow face , looked rather purple than red .
He does , with sincere shame and terror , hide under that purple wig something he thinks it would blast the sons of man to see .
Before he came within earshot , Father Brown had added quite composedly , " Why does he really hide the secret of what he does with the purple wig ?
This transformation scene , which will seem to you as wild and purple as a Persian fairy - tale , has been ( except for my technical assault ) strictly legal and constitutional from its first beginnings .
They entered a wooded avenue between two fences of thin greyish wood , such as often enclose parks or gardens , and over the top of which the dark trees tossed to and fro like black and purple plumes upon the hearse of a giant .
But as I was saying ," he resumed , as the negro , still ostentatiously pulling on his yellow gloves , betook himself briskly towards the watering - place , a queer music - hall figure against that grey and frosty scene --" as I was saying , I couldn ' t describe the man very minutely , but he had a flourish and old - fashioned whiskers and moustachios , dark or dyed , as in the pictures of foreign financiers , round his neck was wrapped a long purple scarf that thrashed out in the wind as he walked .
But I ' m afraid I didn ' t describe him so very accurately after all , for his pince - nez was broken under him , and the long gold pin wasn ' t stuck through his purple scarf but through his heart ."
Major Putnam had sprung up , his purple face mottled .
That faultless falcon profile with purple - black Italian eye , which had been snap - shotted so often both for Smart Society and the Western Sun , gave everyone the impression of a man eaten by ambition as by a fire , or even a disease .
His black coat looked as if it were only black by being too dense a purple .
Indeed , one might say that he looked the king , with his animal elegance , his scornful eyes , and his proud head lifted against the purple sea .
There was a long silence , and then Ratcliffe said , looking out over the swollen sea , all a sort of grey purple --
He looked the mysterious ambassador up and down , but he could discover nothing except that the man ' s coat was the exact colour of the purple shadows , and that the man ' s face was the exact colour of the red and brown and golden sky .
The Professor , whose day was that on which the birds and fishes -- the ruder forms of life -- were created , had a dress of dim purple , over which sprawled goggle - eyed fishes and outrageous tropical birds , the union in him of unfathomable fancy and of doubt .
You had better have given her the purple jar ."
" Mr . Mansfield , Oppidan , white , purple , and orange dress , trimmed with silver ; rich satin bag , purple and silver : each carrying elegant poles , with gold and silver cord .
" Mr . Curtis , purple , fancy cap .
But , in my humble opinion , ma ' m , the marshal ' s white and purple and orange fancy dress , trimmed with silver , will bear the bell ; though , indeed , I shouldn ' t say that ,-- for the colonel ' s and lieutenant ' s , and ensign ' s , are beautiful in the extreme .
Francisco , as he was coming from his father ' s vineyard with a large dish of purple and white grapes upon his head , and a basket of melons and figs hanging upon his arm , chanced to see Piedro seated in this melancholy posture .
I am no coward , but what to make of this head - peddling purple rascal altogether passed my comprehension .
I was called from these reflections by the sight of a freckled woman with yellow hair and a yellow gown , standing in the porch of the inn , under a dull red lamp swinging there , that looked much like an injured eye , and carrying on a brisk scolding with a man in a purple woollen shirt .
But being in a great hurry to resume scolding the man in the purple Shirt , who was waiting for it in the entry , and seeming to hear nothing but the word " clam ," Mrs . Hussey hurried towards an open door leading to the kitchen , and bawling out " clam for two ," disappeared .
Indeed , many are the Nantucket ships in which you will see the skipper parading his quarter - deck with an elated grandeur not surpassed in any military navy ; nay , extorting almost as much outward homage as if he wore the imperial purple , and not the shabbiest of pilot - cloth .
At last , gush after gush of clotted red gore , as if it had been the purple lees of red wine , shot into the frighted air ; and falling back again , ran dripping down his motionless flanks into the sea .
As its name imports , it is of an exceedingly rich , mottled tint , with a bestreaked snowy and golden ground , dotted with spots of the deepest crimson and purple .
Thammuz came next behind , Whose annual wound in Lebanon allured The Syrian damsels to lament his fate In amorous ditties all a summer ' s day , While smooth Adonis from his native rock Ran purple to the sea , supposed with blood Of Thammuz yearly wounded : the love - tale Infected Sion ' s daughters with like heat , Whose wanton passions in the sacred proch Ezekiel saw , when , by the vision led , His eye surveyed the dark idolatries Of alienated Judah .
Beneath him with new wonder now he views , To all delight of human sense exposed , In narrow room , Nature ' s whole wealth , yea more , A Heaven on Earth : For blissful Paradise Of God the garden was , by him in the east Of Eden planted ; Eden stretched her line From Auran eastward to the royal towers Of great Seleucia , built by Grecian kings , Of where the sons of Eden long before Dwelt in Telassar : In this pleasant soil His far more pleasant garden God ordained ; Out of the fertile ground he caused to grow All trees of noblest kind for sight , smell , taste ; And all amid them stood the tree of life , High eminent , blooming ambrosial fruit Of vegetable gold ; and next to life , Our death , the tree of knowledge , grew fast by , Knowledge of good bought dear by knowing ill . Southward through Eden went a river large , Nor changed his course , but through the shaggy hill Passed underneath ingulfed ; for God had thrown That mountain as his garden - mould high raised Upon the rapid current , which , through veins Of porous earth with kindly thirst up - drawn , Rose a fresh fountain , and with many a rill Watered the garden ; thence united fell Down the steep glade , and met the nether flood , Which from his darksome passage now appears , And now , divided into four main streams , Runs diverse , wandering many a famous realm And country , whereof here needs no account ; But rather to tell how , if Art could tell , How from that sapphire fount the crisped brooks , Rolling on orient pearl and sands of gold , With mazy errour under pendant shades Ran nectar , visiting each plant , and fed Flowers worthy of Paradise , which not nice Art In beds and curious knots , but Nature boon Poured forth profuse on hill , and dale , and plain , Both where the morning sun first warmly smote The open field , and where the unpierced shade Imbrowned the noontide bowers : Thus was this place A happy rural seat of various view ; Groves whose rich trees wept odorous gums and balm , Others whose fruit , burnished with golden rind , Hung amiable , Hesperian fables true , If true , here only , and of delicious taste : Betwixt them lawns , or level downs , and flocks Grazing the tender herb , were interposed , Or palmy hillock ; or the flowery lap Of some irriguous valley spread her store , Flowers of all hue , and without thorn the rose : Another side , umbrageous grots and caves Of cool recess , o ' er which the mantling vine Lays forth her purple grape , and gently creeps Luxuriant ; mean while murmuring waters fall Down the slope hills , dispersed , or in a lake , That to the fringed bank with myrtle crowned Her crystal mirrour holds , unite their streams .
So promised he ; and Uriel to his charge Returned on that bright beam , whose point now raised Bore him slope downward to the sun now fallen Beneath the Azores ; whether the prime orb , Incredible how swift , had thither rolled Diurnal , or this less volubil earth , By shorter flight to the east , had left him there Arraying with reflected purple and gold The clouds that on his western throne attend .
Here Love his golden shafts employs , here lights His constant lamp , and waves his purple wings , Reigns here and revels ; not in the bought smile Of harlots , loveless , joyless , unendeared , Casual fruition ; nor in court - amours , Mixed dance , or wanton mask , or midnight ball , Or serenate , which the starved lover sings To his proud fair , best quitted with disdain .
At once came forth whatever creeps the ground , Insect or worm : those waved their limber fans For wings , and smallest lineaments exact In all the liveries decked of summer ' s pride With spots of gold and purple , azure and green : These , as a line , their long dimension drew , Streaking the ground with sinuous trace ; not all Minims of nature ; some of serpent - kind , Wonderous in length and corpulence , involved Their snaky folds , and added wings .
In bower and field he sought , where any tuft Of grove or garden - plot more pleasant lay , Their tendance , or plantation for delight ; By fountain or by shady rivulet He sought them both , but wished his hap might find Eve separate ; he wished , but not with hope Of what so seldom chanced ; when to his wish , Beyond his hope , Eve separate he spies , Veiled in a cloud of fragrance , where she stood , Half spied , so thick the roses blushing round About her glowed , oft stooping to support Each flower of slender stalk , whose head , though gay Carnation , purple , azure , or specked with gold , Hung drooping unsustained ; them she upstays Gently with myrtle band , mindless the while Herself , though fairest unsupported flower , From her best prop so far , and storm so nigh .
He ended : and the Arch - Angel soon drew nigh , Not in his shape celestial , but as man Clad to meet man ; over his lucid arms A military vest of purple flowed , Livelier than Meliboean , or the grain Of Sarra , worn by kings and heroes old In time of truce ; Iris had dipt the woof ; His starry helm unbuckled showed him prime In manhood where youth ended ; by his side , As in a glistering zodiack , hung the sword , Satan ' s dire dread ; and in his hand the spear .
Spontaneous me , Nature , The loving day , the mounting sun , the friend I am happy with , The arm of my friend hanging idly over my shoulder , The hillside whiten ' d with blossoms of the mountain ash , The same late in autumn , the hues of red , yellow , drab , purple , and light and dark green , The rich coverlet of the grass , animals and birds , the private untrimm ' d bank , the primitive apples , the pebble - stones , Beautiful dripping fragments , the negligent list of one after another as I happen to call them to me or think of them , The real poems , ( what we call poems being merely pictures ,) The poems of the privacy of the night , and of men like me , This poem drooping shy and unseen that I always carry , and that all men carry , ( Know once for all , avow ' d on purpose , wherever are men like me , are our lusty lurking masculine poems ,) Love - thoughts , love - juice , love - odor , love - yielding , love - climbers , and the climbing sap , Arms and hands of love , lips of love , phallic thumb of love , breasts of love , bellies press ' d and glued together with love , Earth of chaste love , life that is only life after love , The body of my love , the body of the woman I love , the body of the man , the body of the earth , Soft forenoon airs that blow from the south - west , The hairy wild - bee that murmurs and hankers up and down , that gripes the full - grown lady - flower , curves upon her with amorous firm legs , takes his will of her , and holds himself tremulous and tight till he is satisfied ; The wet of woods through the early hours , Two sleepers at night lying close together as they sleep , one with an arm slanting down across and below the waist of the other , The smell of apples , aromas from crush ' d sage - plant , mint , birch - bark , The boy ' s longings , the glow and pressure as he confides to me what he was dreaming , The dead leaf whirling its spiral whirl and falling still and content to the ground , The no - form ' d stings that sights , people , objects , sting me with , The hubb ' d sting of myself , stinging me as much as it ever can any one , The sensitive , orbic , underlapp ' d brothers , that only privileged feelers may be intimate where they are , The curious roamer the hand roaming all over the body , the bashful withdrawing of flesh where the fingers soothingly pause and edge themselves , The limpid liquid within the young man , The vex ' d corrosion so pensive and so painful , The torment , the irritable tide that will not be at rest , The like of the same I feel , the like of the same in others , The young man that flushes and flushes , and the young woman that flushes and flushes , The young man that wakes deep at night , the hot hand seeking to repress what would master him , The mystic amorous night , the strange half - welcome pangs , visions , sweats , The pulse pounding through palms and trembling encircling fingers , the young man all color ' d , red , ashamed , angry ; The souse upon me of my lover the sea , as I lie willing and naked , The merriment of the twin babes that crawl over the grass in the sun , the mother never turning her vigilant eyes from them , The walnut - trunk , the walnut - husks , and the ripening or ripen ' d long - round walnuts , The continence of vegetables , birds , animals , The consequent meanness of me should I skulk or find myself indecent , while birds and animals never once skulk or find themselves indecent , The great chastity of paternity , to match the great chastity of maternity , The oath of procreation I have sworn , my Adamic and fresh daughters , The greed that eats me day and night with hungry gnaw , till I saturate what shall produce boys to fill my place when I am through , The wholesome relief , repose , content , And this bunch pluck ' d at random from myself , It has done its work -- I toss it carelessly to fall where it may .
for us , forever pass ' d , that once so mighty world , now void , inanimate , phantom world , Embroider ' d , dazzling , foreign world , with all its gorgeous legends , myths , Its kings and castles proud , its priests and warlike lords and courtly dames , Pass ' d to its charnel vault , coffin ' d with crown and armor on , Blazon ' d with Shakspere ' s purple page , And dirged by Tennyson ' s sweet sad rhyme .
The world below the brine , Forests at the bottom of the sea , the branches and leaves , Sea - lettuce , vast lichens , strange flowers and seeds , the thick tangle openings , and pink turf , Different colors , pale gray and green , purple , white , and gold , the play of light through the water , Dumb swimmers there among the rocks , coral , gluten , grass , rushes , and the aliment of the swimmers , Sluggish existences grazing there suspended , or slowly crawling close to the bottom , The sperm - whale at the surface blowing air and spray , or disporting with his flukes , The leaden - eyed shark , the walrus , the turtle , the hairy sea - leopard , and the sting - ray , Passions there , wars , pursuits , tribes , sight in those ocean - depths , breathing that thick - breathing air , as so many do , The change thence to the sight here , and to the subtle air breathed by beings like us who walk this sphere , The change onward from ours to that of beings who walk other spheres .
Look down fair moon and bathe this scene , Pour softly down night ' s nimbus floods on faces ghastly , swollen , purple , On the dead on their backs with arms toss ' d wide , Pour down your unstinted nimbus sacred moon .
Lo , the most excellent sun so calm and haughty , The violet and purple morn with just - felt breezes , The gentle soft - born measureless light , The miracle spreading bathing all , the fulfill ' d noon , The coming eve delicious , the welcome night and the stars , Over my cities shining all , enveloping man and land .
Thee for my recitative , Thee in the driving storm even as now , the snow , the winter - day declining , Thee in thy panoply , thy measur ' d dual throbbing and thy beat convulsive , Thy black cylindric body , golden brass and silvery steel , Thy ponderous side - bars , parallel and connecting rods , gyrating , shuttling at thy sides , Thy metrical , now swelling pant and roar , now tapering in the distance , Thy great protruding head - light fix ' d in front , Thy long , pale , floating vapor - pennants , tinged with delicate purple , The dense and murky clouds out - belching from thy smoke - stack , Thy knitted frame , thy springs and valves , the tremulous twinkle of thy wheels , Thy train of cars behind , obedient , merrily following , Through gale or calm , now swift , now slack , yet steadily careering ; Type of the modern -- emblem of motion and power -- pulse of the continent , For once come serve the Muse and merge in verse , even as here I see thee , With storm and buffeting gusts of wind and falling snow , By day thy warning ringing bell to sound its notes , By night thy silent signal lamps to swing .
Again old heart so gay , again to you , your sense , the full flush spring returning , Again the freshness and the odors , again Virginia ' s summer sky , pellucid blue and silver , Again the forenoon purple of the hills , Again the deathless grass , so noiseless soft and green , Again the blood - red roses blooming .
O forenoon purple of the hills , before I close , of you !
Apple orchards , the trees all cover ' d with blossoms ; Wheat fields carpeted far and near in vital emerald green ; The eternal , exhaustless freshness of each early morning ; The yellow , golden , transparent haze of the warm afternoon sun ; The aspiring lilac bushes with profuse purple or white flowers .
