This was obliged to be repeated before it could be believed ; and Mr . Knightley actually looked red with surprize and displeasure , as he stood up , in tall indignation , and said ,
" The last time I saw her she had a red nose , but I hope that may not happen every day ."
He was more obviously struck and confused by the sight of her than she had ever observed before ; he looked quite red .
Marianne felt for her most sincerely ; but she did more harm than good to the cause , by turning very red and saying in an angry manner to Margaret ,
In about half an hour her mother returned , and though her eyes were red , her countenance was not uncheerful .
Her eyes were red and swollen ; and it seemed as if her tears were even then restrained with difficulty .
As for the navy , it had fashion on its side , but I was too old when the subject was first started to enter it -- and , at length , as there was no necessity for my having any profession at all , as I might be as dashing and expensive without a red coat on my back as with one , idleness was pronounced on the whole to be most advantageous and honourable , and a young man of eighteen is not in general so earnestly bent on being busy as to resist the solicitations of his friends to do nothing .
my dear ,' says I , ' it is nothing in the world , but the red gum --' and nurse said just the same .
But Charlotte , she would not be satisfied , so Mr . Donavan was sent for ; and luckily he happened to just come in from Harley Street , so he stepped over directly , and as soon as ever he saw the child , be said just as we did , that it was nothing in the world but the red gum , and then Charlotte was easy .
25 : 25 And the first came out red , all over like an hairy garment ; and they called his name Esau .
25 : 29 And Jacob sod pottage : and Esau came from the field , and he was faint : 25 : 30 And Esau said to Jacob , Feed me , I pray thee , with that same red pottage ; for I am faint : therefore was his name called Edom .
49 : 11 Binding his foal unto the vine , and his ass ' s colt unto the choice vine ; he washed his garments in wine , and his clothes in the blood of grapes : 49 : 12 His eyes shall be red with wine , and his teeth white with milk .
10 : 19 And the LORD turned a mighty strong west wind , which took away the locusts , and cast them into the Red sea ; there remained not one locust in all the coasts of Egypt .
13 : 17 And it came to pass , when Pharaoh had let the people go , that God led them not through the way of the land of the Philistines , although that was near ; for God said , Lest peradventure the people repent when they see war , and they return to Egypt : 13 : 18 But God led the people about , through the way of the wilderness of the Red sea : and the children of Israel went up harnessed out of the land of Egypt .
15 : 4 Pharaoh ' s chariots and his host hath he cast into the sea : his chosen captains also are drowned in the Red sea .
15 : 22 So Moses brought Israel from the Red sea , and they went out into the wilderness of Shur ; and they went three days in the wilderness , and found no water .
23 : 31 And I will set thy bounds from the Red sea even unto the sea of the Philistines , and from the desert unto the river : for I will deliver the inhabitants of the land into your hand ; and thou shalt drive them out before thee .
25 : 3 And this is the offering which ye shall take of them ; gold , and silver , and brass , 25 : 4 And blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine linen , and goats ' hair , 25 : 5 And rams ' skins dyed red , and badgers ' skins , and shittim wood , 25 : 6 Oil for the light , spices for anointing oil , and for sweet incense , 25 : 7 Onyx stones , and stones to be set in the ephod , and in the breastplate .
26 : 14 And thou shalt make a covering for the tent of rams ' skins dyed red , and a covering above of badgers ' skins .
35 : 4 And Moses spake unto all the congregation of the children of Israel , saying , This is the thing which the LORD commanded , saying , 35 : 5 Take ye from among you an offering unto the LORD : whosoever is of a willing heart , let him bring it , an offering of the LORD ; gold , and silver , and brass , 35 : 6 And blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine linen , and goats ' hair , 35 : 7 And rams ' skins dyed red , and badgers ' skins , and shittim wood , 35 : 8 And oil for the light , and spices for anointing oil , and for the sweet incense , 35 : 9 And onyx stones , and stones to be set for the ephod , and for the breastplate .
35 : 23 And every man , with whom was found blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine linen , and goats ' hair , and red skins of rams , and badgers ' skins , brought them .
36 : 19 And he made a covering for the tent of rams ' skins dyed red , and a covering of badgers ' skins above that .
39 : 33 And they brought the tabernacle unto Moses , the tent , and all his furniture , his taches , his boards , his bars , and his pillars , and his sockets , 39 : 34 And the covering of rams ' skins dyed red , and the covering of badgers ' skins , and the vail of the covering , 39 : 35 The ark of the testimony , and the staves thereof , and the mercy seat , 39 : 36 The table , and all the vessels thereof , and the shewbread , 39 : 37 The pure candlestick , with the lamps thereof , even with the lamps to be set in order , and all the vessels thereof , and the oil for light , 39 : 38 And the golden altar , and the anointing oil , and the sweet incense , and the hanging for the tabernacle door , 39 : 39 The brasen altar , and his grate of brass , his staves , and all his vessels , the laver and his foot , 39 : 40 The hangings of the court , his pillars , and his sockets , and the hanging for the court gate , his cords , and his pins , and all the vessels of the service of the tabernacle , for the tent of the congregation , 39 : 41 The cloths of service to do service in the holy place , and the holy garments for Aaron the priest , and his sons ' garments , to minister in the priest ' s office .
Tomorrow turn you , and get you into the wilderness by the way of the Red sea .
19 : 1 And the LORD spake unto Moses and unto Aaron , saying , 19 : 2 This is the ordinance of the law which the LORD hath commanded , saying , Speak unto the children of Israel , that they bring thee a red heifer without spot , wherein is no blemish , and upon which never came yoke : 19 : 3 And ye shall give her unto Eleazar the priest , that he may bring her forth without the camp , and one shall slay her before his face : 19 : 4 And Eleazar the priest shall take of her blood with his finger , and sprinkle of her blood directly before the tabernacle of the congregation seven times : 19 : 5 And one shall burn the heifer in his sight ; her skin , and her flesh , and her blood , with her dung , shall he burn : 19 : 6 And the priest shall take cedar wood , and hyssop , and scarlet , and cast it into the midst of the burning of the heifer .
21 : 4 And they journeyed from mount Hor by the way of the Red sea , to compass the land of Edom : and the soul of the people was much discouraged because of the way .
21 : 14 Wherefore it is said in the book of the wars of the LORD , What he did in the Red sea , and in the brooks of Arnon , 21 : 15 And at the stream of the brooks that goeth down to the dwelling of Ar , and lieth upon the border of Moab .
33 : 10 And they removed from Elim , and encamped by the Red sea .
33 : 11 And they removed from the Red sea , and encamped in the wilderness of Sin .
1 : 1 These be the words which Moses spake unto all Israel on this side Jordan in the wilderness , in the plain over against the Red sea , between Paran , and Tophel , and Laban , and Hazeroth , and Dizahab .
1 : 40 But as for you , turn you , and take your journey into the wilderness by the way of the Red sea .
2 : 1 Then we turned , and took our journey into the wilderness by the way of the Red sea , as the LORD spake unto me : and we compassed mount Seir many days .
11 : 2 And know ye this day : for I speak not with your children which have not known , and which have not seen the chastisement of the LORD your God , his greatness , his mighty hand , and his stretched out arm , 11 : 3 And his miracles , and his acts , which he did in the midst of Egypt unto Pharaoh the king of Egypt , and unto all his land ; 11 : 4 And what he did unto the army of Egypt , unto their horses , and to their chariots ; how he made the water of the Red sea to overflow them as they pursued after you , and how the LORD hath destroyed them unto this day ; 11 : 5 And what he did unto you in the wilderness , until ye came into this place ; 11 : 6 And what he did unto Dathan and Abiram , the sons of Eliab , the son of Reuben : how the earth opened her mouth , and swallowed them up , and their households , and their tents , and all the substance that was in their possession , in the midst of all Israel : 11 : 7 But your eyes have seen all the great acts of the LORD which he did .
2 : 10 For we have heard how the LORD dried up the water of the Red sea for you , when ye came out of Egypt ; and what ye did unto the two kings of the Amorites , that were on the other side Jordan , Sihon and Og , whom ye utterly destroyed .
4 : 23 For the LORD your God dried up the waters of Jordan from before you , until ye were passed over , as the LORD your God did to the Red sea , which he dried up from before us , until we were gone over : 4 : 24 That all the people of the earth might know the hand of the LORD , that it is mighty : that ye might fear the LORD your God for ever .
24 : 6 And I brought your fathers out of Egypt : and ye came unto the sea ; and the Egyptians pursued after your fathers with chariots and horsemen unto the Red sea .
11 : 14 And Jephthah sent messengers again unto the king of the children of Ammon : 11 : 15 And said unto him , Thus saith Jephthah , Israel took not away the land of Moab , nor the land of the children of Ammon : 11 : 16 But when Israel came up from Egypt , and walked through the wilderness unto the Red sea , and came to Kadesh ; 11 : 17 Then Israel sent messengers unto the king of Edom , saying , Let me , I pray thee , pass through thy land : but the king of Edom would not hearken thereto .
9 : 26 And king Solomon made a navy of ships in Eziongeber , which is beside Eloth , on the shore of the Red sea , in the land of Edom .
3 : 22 And they rose up early in the morning , and the sun shone upon the water , and the Moabites saw the water on the other side as red as blood : 3 : 23 And they said , This is blood : the kings are surely slain , and they have smitten one another : now therefore , Moab , to the spoil .
9 : 7 Thou art the LORD the God , who didst choose Abram , and broughtest him forth out of Ur of the Chaldees , and gavest him the name of Abraham ; 9 : 8 And foundest his heart faithful before thee , and madest a covenant with him to give the land of the Canaanites , the Hittites , the Amorites , and the Perizzites , and the Jebusites , and the Girgashites , to give it , I say , to his seed , and hast performed thy words ; for thou art righteous : 9 : 9 And didst see the affliction of our fathers in Egypt , and heardest their cry by the Red sea ; 9 : 10 And shewedst signs and wonders upon Pharaoh , and on all his servants , and on all the people of his land : for thou knewest that they dealt proudly against them .
1 : 5 And when these days were expired , the king made a feast unto all the people that were present in Shushan the palace , both unto great and small , seven days , in the court of the garden of the king ' s palace ; 1 : 6 Where were white , green , and blue , hangings , fastened with cords of fine linen and purple to silver rings and pillars of marble : the beds were of gold and silver , upon a pavement of red , and blue , and white , and black , marble .
75 : 8 For in the hand of the LORD there is a cup , and the wine is red ; it is full of mixture ; and he poureth out of the same : but the dregs thereof , all the wicked of the earth shall wring them out , and drink them .
106 : 7 Our fathers understood not thy wonders in Egypt ; they remembered not the multitude of thy mercies ; but provoked him at the sea , even at the Red sea .
106 : 9 He rebuked the Red sea also , and it was dried up : so he led them through the depths , as through the wilderness .
106 : 22 Wondrous works in the land of Ham , and terrible things by the Red sea .
136 : 13 To him which divided the Red sea into parts : for his mercy endureth for ever :
136 : 15 But overthrew Pharaoh and his host in the Red sea : for his mercy endureth for ever .
23 : 31 Look not thou upon the wine when it is red , when it giveth his colour in the cup , when it moveth itself aright .
1 : 18 Come now , and let us reason together , saith the LORD : though your sins be as scarlet , they shall be as white as snow ; though they be red like crimson , they shall be as wool .
27 : 2 In that day sing ye unto her , A vineyard of red wine .
63 : 2 Wherefore art thou red in thine apparel , and thy garments like him that treadeth in the winefat ?
49 : 21 The earth is moved at the noise of their fall , at the cry the noise thereof was heard in the Red sea .
2 : 3 The shield of his mighty men is made red , the valiant men are in scarlet : the chariots shall be with flaming torches in the day of his preparation , and the fir trees shall be terribly shaken .
1 : 7 Upon the four and twentieth day of the eleventh month , which is the month Sebat , in the second year of Darius , came the word of the LORD unto Zechariah , the son of Berechiah , the son of Iddo the prophet , saying , 1 : 8 I saw by night , and behold a man riding upon a red horse , and he stood among the myrtle trees that were in the bottom ; and behind him were there red horses , speckled , and white .
6 : 2 In the first chariot were red horses ; and in the second chariot black horses ; 6 : 3 And in the third chariot white horses ; and in the fourth chariot grisled and bay horses .
16 : 2 He answered and said unto them , When it is evening , ye say , It will be fair weather : for the sky is red .
16 : 3 And in the morning , It will be foul weather to day : for the sky is red and lowering .
7 : 36 He brought them out , after that he had shewed wonders and signs in the land of Egypt , and in the Red sea , and in the wilderness forty years .
11 : 29 By faith they passed through the Red sea as by dry land : which the Egyptians assaying to do were drowned .
6 : 4 And there went out another horse that was red : and power was given to him that sat thereon to take peace from the earth , and that they should kill one another : and there was given unto him a great sword .
12 : 3 And there appeared another wonder in heaven ; and behold a great red dragon , having seven heads and ten horns , and seven crowns upon his heads .
So he took his wings , and fled ; Then the morn blushed rosy red .
THE LITTLE RED HEN
The little Red Hen was in the farmyard with her chickens , when she found a grain of wheat .
" I will , then ," said the little Red Hen , and she planted the grain of wheat .
" I will , then ," said the little Red Hen , and she took the wheat to the mill .
" I will , then ," said the little Red Hen .
" No , you won ' t ," said the little Red Hen .
He was not asleep , but was watching very earnestly a blackberry - bush , that waved its one tall , dark - red spray in the wind outside the fence .
His mother and his father cherish him ; he nestles on their knees in the red firelight at night , while they read to him lovely stories , or sing sweet old songs to him ,-- the happy little boy !
Wee folk , good folk , Trooping all together ; Green jacket , red cap , And white owl ' s feather !
Wee folk , good folk , Trooping all together ; Green jacket , red cap , And white owl ' s feather !
And there , before him , stood a queer little Red Man !
He had a little red cap , and a little red jacket , and odd little red shoes with points at the toes .
" Because you tried to steal my acorn ," said the little Red Man .
" No , it isn ' t ," said the little Red Man , " I have it ; you will never see it again ."
But the little door was locked , and the little Red Man had the key .
So the little brown Mouse was the little Red Man ' s servant , and every day he made the little Red Man ' s bed and swept the little Red Man ' s room and cooked the little Red Man ' s broth .
And every day the little Red Man went away through the tiny door , and did not come back till afternoon .
And the little Red Man never knew what had become of it , because he didn ' t know where the little Field Mouse lived .
ANOTHER LITTLE RED HEN
Once upon a time there was a little Red Hen , who lived on a farm all by herself .
Many and many a night this old Fox used to lie awake and think to himself how good that little Red Hen would taste if he could once get her in his big kettle and boil her for dinner .
But he couldn ' t catch the little Red Hen , because she was too wise for him .
At last the old Fox thought out a way to catch the little Red Hen .
Early in the morning he said to his old mother , " Have the kettle boiling when I come home to - night , for I ' ll be bringing the little Red Hen for supper ."
Then he took a big bag and slung it over his shoulder , and walked till he came to the little Red Hen ' s house .
The little Red Hen was just coming out of her door to pick up a few sticks for firewood .
In a minute the little Red Hen came quickly in , and shut the door and locked it .
how scared the little Red Hen was !
He stood on the floor underneath the little Red Hen and twirled round in a circle after his own tail .
And as he spun , and spun , and spun , faster , and faster , and faster , the poor little Red Hen got so dizzy watching him that she couldn ' t hold on to the perch .
He had a very long way to go , up hill , and the little Red Hen was still so dizzy that she didn ' t know where she was .
There was a great big stone lying there , and the little Red Hen picked it up and put it in the bag as quick as a wink .
" Yes ," said his mother ; " have you got the little Red Hen ?"
But the little Red Hen lived happily ever after , in her own little farmhouse .
The wife cut out two tiny , tiny coats of green , two weeny , weeny waistcoats of yellow , two little pairs of trousers , of white , two bits of caps , bright red ( for every one knows the elves love bright colours ), and her husband made two little pairs of shoes with long , pointed toes .
" No longer will Frode sit on his throne , and rule over rings of red gold and mighty millstones .
red warriors come forth -- and revenge , and bloodshed , and ruin ."
He heard Chatterer the Red Squirrel scolding as fast as he could make his tongue go and working himself into a terrible rage .
In the Big Hickory - tree were Chatterer the Red Squirrel , Happy Jack the Gray Squirrel , and Sammy Jay .
When Farmer Brown ' s boy disappeared in the barn , Chatterer the Red Squirrel snickered right out loud .
Happy Jack the Gray Squirrel and his cousin , Chatterer the Red Squirrel , looking down from another tree , held _their_ breath .
But when impudent little Chatterer the Red Squirrel shouted the same thing from a place just out of reach in a big pine - tree , Buster could stand it no longer .
CHATTERER THE RED SQUIRREL JUMPS FOR HIS LIFE
It isn ' t very often that Chatterer the Red Squirrel knows fear .
He was awake even before jolly , round , red Mr . Sun thought it was time to get up , and he was all ready to start for the Old Pasture when the first Jolly Little Sunbeams came dancing across the Green Meadows .
Jolly , round , red Mr . Sun had climbed a little way up in the sky by the time Farmer Brown ' s boy reached the Old Pasture , and was smiling down on all the Great World , and all the Great World seemed to be smiling back .
Now Buster had reached the Old Pasture just as jolly , round , red Mr . Sun had crept out of bed , and he had fully made up his mind that he would be back in the Green Forest before Mr . Sun had climbed very far up in the blue , blue sky .
Jolly , round , red Mr . Sun climbed higher and higher in the blue , blue sky .
Of course , Chatterer the Red Squirrel and Happy Jack the Gray Squirrel were there .
He isn ' t one tenth so quick tempered as Chatterer the Red Squirrel , or Sammy Jay , or Reddy Fox .
' No , I ' ll look first ,' she said , ' and see whether it ' s marked " poison " or not '; for she had read several nice little histories about children who had got burnt , and eaten up by wild beasts and other unpleasant things , all because they WOULD not remember the simple rules their friends had taught them : such as , that a red - hot poker will burn you if you hold it too long ; and that if you cut your finger VERY deeply with a knife , it usually bleeds ; and she had never forgotten that , if you drink much from a bottle marked ' poison ,' it is almost certain to disagree with you , sooner or later .
A large rose - tree stood near the entrance of the garden : the roses growing on it were white , but there were three gardeners at it , busily painting them red .
Two began in a low voice , ' Why the fact is , you see , Miss , this here ought to have been a RED rose - tree , and we put a white one in by mistake ; and if the Queen was to find it out , we should all have our heads cut off , you know .
To the little man who edited _The Atheist_ , a fiery little Scotchman , with fiery , red hair and beard , going by the name of Turnbull , all this decline in public importance seemed not so much sad or even mad , but merely bewildering and unaccountable .
He knew that Our Lady ' s robes were blue before he knew the wild roses round her feet were red .
Behind his red hair and beard he turned deadly pale with pleasure .
Its eyes were grey and awful , and its beard red .
One of them who seemed to be the principal and the authority ( whom , indeed , Mr . Henry Gordon fancied he had seen somewhere before ), was a small , sturdy fellow , with fine grey eyes , a square red tie and a square red beard , that he carried aggressively forward as if he defied anyone to pull it .
" These will do ," said the strange person with the red beard .
And just as the red and raging face of a policeman appeared above the wall , Turnbull struck the horse with a terrible cut of the whip and the two went whirling away like a boomerang .
He was always represented ( in defiance of fact ), with red whiskers , and a very red nose , and in full Highland costume .
demanded the leader , again , his face slowly growing as red as his beard ; then he said , suddenly , and in a more human voice , " Are you in pain , MacIan ?"
Across the great plains and uplands to the right and left of the lane , a long tide of sunset light rolled like a sea of ruby , lighting up the long terraces of the hills and picking out the few windows of the scattered hamlets in startling blood - red sparks .
And the burning evening sky looked down at them through the tangle with red eyes as of an army of goblins .
His red hair and beard looked almost scarlet , and his pale face as bright as a boy ' s .
Turnbull was coolly curling his red moustache , and the stranger stared from one to the other , temporarily stunned by their innocent assurance .
They imagined him to be occupied on some concerns in the interior of the house , and they waited for his emergence , stamping the garden in silence -- the garden of tall , fresh country flowers , in the midst of which the monstrous South Sea idol lifted itself as abruptly as the prow of a ship riding on a sea of red and white and gold .
Carthage _was_ destroyed , the Red Indians are being exterminated : that is the single certainty .
One was tall and dark , the other short and red - haired .
Turnbull turned for some reason a little red and remarked quickly , " That may be jolly clever , for all I know .
He was a man elderly or rather of any age , with lean grey hair and a lean red face , but with that remarkable rustic physiognomy in which it seems that all the features stand out independently from the face ; the rugged red nose going out like a limb ; the bleared blue eyes standing out like signals .
But the singular old man with the lank red face seemed to think uncommonly little of the short words .
Turnbull ' s mouth twitched in angry humour under his red moustache .
we ' ll take care of the lady ," said the red - faced young man , and went off into gurgling and almost senile laughter .
The sea that lay before them was like a pavement of emerald , bright and almost brittle ; the sky against which its strict horizon hung was almost absolutely white , except that close to the sky line , like scarlet braids on the hem of a garment , lay strings of flaky cloud of so gleaming and gorgeous a red that they seemed cut out of some strange blood - red celestial metal , of which the mere gold of this earth is but a drab yellow imitation .
" And now it is a blood - red hand ."
It is the finger of God -- red as blood -- still pointing .
He drank in the last green and the last red and the last gold , those unique and indescribable things of God , as a man drains good wine at the bottom of his glass .
When the Highlander began to pull really hard upon the oars , Turnbull craned his dripping red head out of the boat to see the goal of his exertions .
said Turnbull , and all the rhetorical part of him came to the top , his face growing as red as his hair .
Then , for the first time , Turnbull twisted round his red bear to get a glimpse of his companion , who was a foot or two behind , and remarked abruptly : " Mr . MacIan , we ' ve been going the wrong way to work all along .
The man stood , a somewhat comic figure in his tragic bewilderment , with the honest red head of James Turnbull sticking out of the rich and fictitious garments of Camille Bert .
Turnbull thrust his hands through his red hair like one who gives up the world as a bad riddle .
said Turnbull , sitting up and rubbing his red eyebrows with his hand .
The roses were red hot ; the clematis was , so to speak , blue hot .
Turnbull ' s eye grew even more offensive , and he began biting his red beard ; but MacIan seemed to recognize a type with which he could deal and continued quite easily :
Then Turnbull looked very gravely at the strict gravel walls and the gay flower - beds and the long rectangular red - brick building , which the mist had left evident beyond them .
Then Turnbull , who had been staring with a frown at the fresh turf , burst out with a rather bitter laugh and cried , throwing his red head in the air :
His face and neck were of a lusty red , but lean and stringy ; he always wore his expensive gold - rim eye - glasses slightly askew upon his aquiline nose ; and he always showed two gleaming foreteeth under his moustache , in a smile so perpetual as to earn the reputation of a sneer .
He led them rapidly into a small but imposing apartment , which seemed to be built and furnished entirely in red - varnished wood .
There was one desk occupied with carefully docketed papers ; and there were several chairs of the red - varnished wood -- though of different shape .
All along the wall ran something that might have been a bookcase , only that it was not filled with books , but with flat , oblong slabs or cases of the same polished dark - red consistency .
The doctor had already gone across to the laden shelves , and after a few minutes ' short - sighted peering , had pulled down another parallelogram of dark - red wood .
But even the cheerful inner life of a logician may be upset by a lunatic asylum , to say nothing of whiffs of memory from a lady in Jersey , and the little red - bearded man on this windy evening was in a dangerous frame of mind .
Plain and positive as he was , the influence of earth and sky may have been greater on him than he imagined ; and the weather that walked the world at that moment was as red and angry as Turnbull .
Long strips and swirls of tattered and tawny cloud were dragged downward to the west exactly as torn red raiment would be dragged .
And so strong and pitiless was the wind that it whipped away fragments of red - flowering bushes or of copper beech , and drove them also across the garden , a drift of red leaves , like the leaves of autumn , as in parody of the red and driven rags of cloud .
And as it came nearer it was evident , first , that it was not a cloud , and , second , that it was not itself of the colour of copper ; only , being burnished like a mirror , it had reflected the red - brown colours of the burning clouds .
When it came about a hundred feet above the garden , a shaggy , lean figure leapt up in it , almost black against the bronze and scarlet of the west , and , flinging out a kind of hook or anchor , caught on to the green apple - tree just under the wall ; and from that fixed holding ground the ship swung in the red tempest like a captive balloon .
The wind roared in the trees yet more ruinous and desolate , the red tails of the sunset were dragged downward like red dragons sucked down to death , and still on the top of the asylum wall sat the sinister figure with the grimace , swinging his feet in tune with the tempest ; while above him , at the end of its tossing or tightened cord , the enormous iron air - ship floated as light and as little noticed as a baby ' s balloon upon its string .
Turnbull looked at the fire - swept sky and the wind - stricken woodlands , and kept on repeating the word voicelessly to himself -- the word that did indeed so thoroughly express his mood of rage as it had been among those red clouds and rocking tree - tops .
" All the great rebels have been very little rebels ," said the man with the red scarf .
But on them as they swept upward better and braver winds seemed to blow , and on them the ruby light of evening seemed struck , and splashed like red spurts from the grapes of Dionysus .
And above them all the red and raging clouds were like the leaping flags of liberty .
" The truth is that we never thought that you could have been caught ," he said ; " we counted on you as the one red - hot revolutionary left in the world .
The last red anger of the sunset was ended ; the dome of heaven was dark ; the lanes of flaring light in the streets below hardly lit up the base of the building .
When he again realized anything , he was lying on his elbow on the lawn of the lunatic asylum , and the last red of the sunset had not yet disappeared .
Into the middle of his stationary and senseless enjoyment were thrust abruptly the projecting elbow and the projecting red beard of Turnbull .
Another instant and the hall was full of the fog of it , and red sparks began to swarm like scarlet bees .
Separate tall flames shot up and spread out above them like the fiery cloisters of some infernal cathedral , or like a grove of red tropical trees in the garden of the devil .
The red flush of it lit up the long sides of white ships far out in the German Ocean , and picked out like piercing rubies the windows in the villages on the distant heights .
While the first light of the fire had shot east and west , painting the sides of ships with fire - light or striking red sparks out of windowed houses , it had not hitherto struck upward , for there was above it the ponderous and rococo cavern of its own monstrous coloured smoke .
Far , far away up in those huge hollows of space something was flying swiftly and shining brightly , something that shone too bright and flew too fast to be any of the fowls of the air , though the red light lit it from underneath like the breast of a bird .
Before the scientist could conclude his sentence , another and more impatient summons sounded from without ; someone with swishing skirts was marshalled hurriedly down the corridor , and the door opened on a young girl , decently dressed but disordered and red - hot with haste .
Then , advancing into the middle of the room with a bow , he produced from his pocket a big bill printed in blue and red , which announced that ZALADIN , the World ' s Greatest Conjurer , Contortionist , Ventriloquist and Human Kangaroo would be ready with an entirely new series of Tricks at the Empire Pavilion , Scarborough , on Monday next at eight o ' clock precisely .
The banker looked at him under lowering brows , red - faced and sulky , but seemingly cowed .
And now his red and trembling hand went reluctantly to his breast - pocket , and passed a bundle of papers and envelopes to the brigand .
It was a scarf of strong dead colours , dark red and old gold and purple , probably of Oriental fabrication .
` Tell the man the formula for powder is in grey envelope in first drawer to the left of Secretary ' s desk , War Office , in red ink .
He did not lift his eyes from his plate , round which red pepper , lemons , brown bread and butter , etc ., were rigidly ranked , until a tall shadow fell across the table , and his friend Flambeau sat down opposite .
It says the grey envelope contains a long document written in red ink .
It isn ' t written in red ink , but in ordinary black ink .
As long as it was only the left drawer instead of the right , and red ink instead of black , I thought it must be the chance blunders of a forger , as you say .
A red blind had been pulled down over the light , but pulled crookedly , so that it gaped on one side , and by risking his neck along a branch that looked as treacherous as a twig , Flambeau could just see Colonel Dubosc walking about in a brilliantly - lighted and luxurious bedroom .
The occupant of the room was standing with his back to him , but in front of a looking - glass , and had already fitted round his face a sort of framework of rank red hair , hanging disordered from the head and clinging round the jaws and chin while leaving the mocking mouth uncovered .
For a spasm Flambeau saw the fierce , red - brown eyes dancing , then they were covered with a pair of blue spectacles .
The victim was a popular actress ; the accused was a popular actor ; and the accused had been caught red - handed , as it were , by the most popular soldier of the patriotic season .
" I shall only detain you a moment ," said Mr Butler , who was a rustic - looking person with red eyebrows and an expression of partial slumber .
The rest of his face was almost undiscoverable , being masked with a matted beard and whiskers through which the nose could barely thrust itself , and further buried in a squalid red scarf or handkerchief .
" See here , old man Usher ," shouted the being in the red handkerchief , " I ' m getting tired .
Anyone passing the place during a certain autumn evening , itself almost fairylike , might have seen a hand pull aside the red half - blind which ( along with some large white lettering ) half hid the interior from the street , and a face peer out not unlike a rather innocent goblin ' s .
Then his round eyes rolled to the large white lettering on the window above his head , and then strayed to the next table , at which sat only a navvy with beer and cheese , and a young girl with red hair and a glass of milk .
Flambeau looked up in surprise ; but the girl with the red hair also looked up , and with something that was stronger than astonishment .
Father Brown took a small book out of his pocket and began to read steadily ; he betrayed no consciousness of the fact that the red - haired lady had left her own table and sat down opposite him .
She looked back at him for some time with a heated face , in which there hung a red shadow of anger ; then , despite her anxieties , humour broke out of her eyes and the corners of her mouth , and she answered almost grimly : " Well , if you ' re so keen on my conversation , perhaps you ' ll answer my question ."
" But it ' s such a crooked nose ," remonstrated the red - haired girl .
" I will tell you everything ," said the red - haired girl doggedly , " except why I am telling you ; and that I don ' t know ."
I got a lot of romance and rubbish where I got my red hair , from the other side of the family .
There was a great red sunset ; and the long stretch of low water , hardly rising over the ankle for half a mile , was like a lake of ruby flame .
" When Philip lifted his head at last from mending his net he looked rather red , as if sulky or ashamed ; but it may have been only the exertion of stooping and the red evening light ; I may have only had another of the morbid fancies that seemed to be dancing about me .
His lank limbs were clad , I might also say clutched , in very tight grey sleeves and pantaloons ; he had a long , sallow , aquiline face which seemed somehow all the more saturnine because his lantern jaws were imprisoned in his collar and neck - cloth more in the style of the old stock ; and his hair ( which ought to have been dark brown ) was of an odd dim , russet colour which , in conjunction with his yellow face , looked rather purple than red .
And all this red roll of impieties came from his thin , genteel lips rather primly than otherwise , as he sat sipping the wine out of his tall , thin glass .
The big librarian had buried his big bald brow in his big red hands , like a man trying to think out his duty .
It left a red triangular scar on the scalp , and the lawyer ' s eyes altered , but not his smile .
The semicircle of lawn in front of the house was varied by three circular garden beds , one of red tulips , a second of yellow tulips , and the third of some white , waxen - looking blossoms that the visitors did not know and presumed to be exotic .
" I don ' t believe in anything ," answered Pendragon very briskly , with a bright eye cocked at a red tropical bird .
With the same mixed emotions they watched him uncoil some considerable lengths of the large garden hose , saying with an air of wistful discrimination : " The red tulips before the yellow , I think .
As he spoke a most beautiful rose - red light seemed to burst into blossom like a gigantic rose ; but accompanied with a crackling and rattling noise that was like the laughter of devils .
" The sign of the flaming tower ," said Father Brown , and sent the driving water from his hose into the heart of the red patch .
But in the blood - red glare , with their black faces and yellow figures , they looked like devils carrying instruments of torture .
Then he closed his mouth and continued to water the new red flower as ruthlessly as he had watered the red tulip .
But all this was less to him than the fact that the red rent , which had lately once more increased , had once more slightly diminished .
The red flower stood up in his buttonhole aggressively , as if it had suddenly grown there .
Major Putnam had managed to slip inside and plunge into a proper shirt and trousers , with a crimson cummerbund , and a light square jacket over all ; thus normally set off , his red festive face seemed bursting with a commonplace cordiality .
The only other person present was a lean man with close red hair and loose , horsey - looking clothes , who was drinking very bad whisky , but smoking a very good cigar .
" It ' s a few yards down the road ," said the red - haired man , removing his cigar ; " I shall be passing it myself in a minute , but I ' m going on to Pendragon Park to try and see the fun ."
" I don ' t think it can go on without a smash ," said the young man with red hair , getting up and shaking himself .
Seen at close quarters it had rather a showy look : the big red jewels in the hilt and guard were a little dubious .
But there were other red drops upon the blade which were not dubious .
The wild red figure reeled an instant against the sundial ; the next it had rolled down the steep bank and lay at the American ' s feet , faintly moving one arm .
But there was a long red stain down the bank from which the man had rolled -- that was no part of the play .
The moonlight discoloured everything , against Dalroy ' s red hair his wan face looked not so much white as pale green .
Boulnois looked at him steadily , but a red bar began to show across his broad brow ; and he seemed like one discovering embarrassment for the first time .
" Human science can never be quite certain of things like that ," said Father Brown , still looking at the red budding of the branches over his head , " if only because of the difficulty about definition and connotation .
THE suburb of Saffron Park lay on the sunset side of London , as red and ragged as a cloud of sunset .
The stranger who looked for the first time at the quaint red houses could only think how very oddly shaped the people must be who could fit in to them .
And Mr . Lucian Gregory , the red - haired poet , was really ( in some sense ) a man worth listening to , even if one only laughed at the end of it .
His dark red hair parted in the middle was literally like a woman ' s , and curved into the slow curls of a virgin in a pre - Raphaelite picture .
Across the great part of the dome they were grey , with the strangest tints of violet and mauve and an unnatural pink or pale green ; but towards the west the whole grew past description , transparent and passionate , and the last red - hot plumes of it covered up the sun like something too good to be seen .
For a long time the red - haired revolutionary had reigned without a rival ; it was upon the night of the sunset that his solitude suddenly ended .
The third party of the group , Gregory ' s sister Rosamond , who had her brother ' s braids of red hair , but a kindlier face underneath them , laughed with such mixture of admiration and disapproval as she gave commonly to the family oracle .
Gregory wagged his heavy , red head with a slow and sad smile .
For the first time a red patch appeared on Gregory ' s forehead .
Gregory ' s big bull ' s eyes blinked suddenly like those of an angry lion , and one could almost fancy that his red mane rose .
He stared and talked at the girl ' s red hair and amused face for what seemed to be a few minutes ; and then , feeling that the groups in such a place should mix , rose to his feet .
And yet , in some indescribable way , she kept recurring like a motive in music through all his mad adventures afterwards , and the glory of her strange hair ran like a red thread through those dark and ill - drawn tapestries of the night .
But when Gregory threw open a pair of doors and let in a red subterranean light , Syme was still smoking with one leg thrown over the other , and had not turned a yellow hair .
Gregory led him down a low , vaulted passage , at the end of which was the red light .
That promise I would keep under red - hot pincers .
His face was deadly pale , so that by contrast his queer red hair looked almost scarlet .
Close to the opening lay a dark , dwarfish steam - launch , like a baby dragon with one red eye .
He walked on the Embankment once under a dark red sunset .
The red river reflected the red sky , and they both reflected his anger .
Look at that bloody red sun and that bloody river !
As a figure he was quite conventional , clad in a silk hat and frock - coat of the more formal type of fashion ; he had a red flower in his buttonhole .
And in the gloom and thickness of the beard his dark red mouth showed sensual and scornful .
For the red flower in his button - hole showed up against a face that was literally discoloured like lead ; the whole hideous effect was as if some drunken dandies had put their clothes upon a corpse .
" Not a bit ," answered Gogol ; and with one finger he ripped off the whole of his shaggy head - covering , emerging with thin red hair and a pale , pert face .
The red - haired detective who had masqueraded as Gogol rose to his feet without a word , and walked out of the room with an air of perfect nonchalance .
He partook reflectively of four small and quaint courses , drank half a bottle of red wine , and ended up over black coffee and a black cigar , still thinking .
Somewhere behind Red Lion Court , however , he noticed a place where some energetic citizen had cleared away the snow for a space of about twenty yards , leaving the wet , glistening cobble - stones .
The sealed and sullen sunset behind the dark dome of St . Paul ' s had in it smoky and sinister colours -- colours of sickly green , dead red or decaying bronze , that were just bright enough to emphasise the solid whiteness of the snow .
By the time they reached Dr . Bull ' s landing , a last window showed them a harsh , white dawn edged with banks of a kind of coarse red , more like red clay than red cloud .
There should have been the black outline of a guillotine against that heavy red and white of the morning .
Syme had gone quite red up to his yellow hair , and his eyes were burning feverishly .
" Or yet again ," tapped Syme , " it is positive , as is the passionate red hair of a beautiful woman ."
The man had two companions now , solemn Frenchmen in frock - coats and silk hats , one of them with the red rosette of the Legion of Honour , evidently people of a solid social position .
cried the gentleman with the red rosette , " when ?"
" My aunt ' s was red ."
He could almost fancy that he heard the grass growing ; he could almost fancy that even as he stood fresh flowers were springing up and breaking into blossom in the meadow -- flowers blood red and burning gold and blue , fulfilling the whole pageant of the spring .
He thought of all the human things in his story -- of the Chinese lanterns in Saffron Park , of the girl ' s red hair in the garden , of the honest , beer - swilling sailors down by the dock , of his loyal companions standing by .
The other was the red face and white moustache of Colonel Ducroix .
Here he is ," and he pulled forward by a reluctant elbow the identical young man who five days before had marched out of the Council with thin red hair and a pale face , the first of all the sham anarchists who had been exposed .
He looked the mysterious ambassador up and down , but he could discover nothing except that the man ' s coat was the exact colour of the purple shadows , and that the man ' s face was the exact colour of the red and brown and golden sky .
Dr . Bull , the last day of Creation , wore a coat covered with heraldic animals in red and gold , and on his crest a man rampant .
It was only when he had come quite close to the crescent of the seven and flung up his face to look at them , that Syme saw , with thunder - struck clearness , that the face was the broad , almost ape - like face of his old friend Gregory , with its rank red hair and its insulting smile .
You have red hair like your sister ."
" My red hair , like red flames , shall burn up the world ," said Gregory .
That companion had been a part of his recent drama ; it was the red - haired poet Gregory .
Syme felt a simple surprise when he saw rising all round him on both sides of the road the red , irregular buildings of Saffron Park .
There he saw the sister of Gregory , the girl with the gold - red hair , cutting lilac before breakfast , with the great unconscious gravity of a girl .
It happened , at the time the orphans were putting up this garland , that two young ladies , who were returning home after their evening walk , stopped at the gate of the churchyard to look at the red light which the setting sun cast upon the window of the church .
She had a broken tobacco - pipe in her mouth ; her head was wrapped up in two large red and blue handkerchiefs , with their crooked corners hanging far down over the back of her neck , no shoes on her broad feet , nor stockings on her many - coloured legs .
It opened , and there came in Lazy Lawrence , with a boy in a red jacket , who had a cock under his arm .
The latter had on a red jacket , which little Jem immediately recollected , and scarcely dared lift his eyes to look at the boy on horseback .
The door was opened by a large , red - faced man , in a blue coat and scarlet waistcoat , to whom he felt afraid to give his message , lest he should not be a servant .
Felix became the favourite of Corkscrew ; and , though Franklin by no means sought to pry into the mysteries of their private conferences , nor ever entered without knocking at the door , yet it was his fate once to be sent of a message at an unlucky time ; and , as the door was half open , he could not avoid seeing Felix drinking a bumper of red liquor , which he could not help suspecting to be wine ; and , as the decanter , which usually went upstairs after dinner , was at this time in the butler ' s grasp , without any stopper in it , he was involuntarily forced to suspect they were drinking his mistress ' wine .
With a red , pimpled , bloated face , emaciated legs , and a swelled , diseased body , he appeared the victim of intoxication .
The maid refused her several times , till Bell burst into another fit of crying , and the maid , fearing that her mistress would be angry with HER , if Bell ' s eyes were red at dinner time , consented to show her the basket .
we shall be late indeed ," said Hal ; " surely you ' ve looked long enough , Ben , at this blue and red window ."
" Papa ," said Patty , " as we go up the hill where there is so much red mud , I must take care to pick my way nicely ; and I must hold up my frock , as you desired me , and , perhaps , you will be so good , if I am not troublesome , to lift me over the very bad place where are no stepping - stones .
She was a FAMOUS horse woman , and sat him to the admiration of all beholders ; but there was a puddle of red clay and water in this spot , and her ladyship ' s uniform habit was a sufferer by the accident .
He tried to draw it back ; his other foot slipped , and he fell prostrate , in his green and white uniform , into the treacherous bed of red mud .
He dragged poor Hal , who was a deplorable spectacle , out of the red mud .
However , Hal , who did not see the red splashes , which , in spite of all these operations , were too visible upon his shoulders , and upon the skirts of his white coat behind , was pretty well satisfied to observe that there was not one spot upon the facings .
" Your red and white uniform , you mean ," said the man to whom he addressed himself ; and the people , as they opened a passage for him , could not refrain laughing at the mixture of dirt and finery which it exhibited .
" Oh , I only mixed red , blue , green and yellow , to show you , Marianne , that all colours mixed together make white .
" Well , then , if you do , come along with me , and dry your eyes , for they are so red !"
Each of the young judges were to signify their choice by putting a red or a white shell into a vase prepared for the purpose .
Cecilia ' s colour was red , Leonora ' s white .
" I will take your shell , and I shall value it as long as I live ; but here is a red one , and if you wish to show me that you love me , you will give this to Cecilia .
" She commissioned me , however ," said Mrs . Villars , " to give you a red shell ; and you will find it in this box ."
Columns of red and white marble , and flights of steps , are seen in different places ; and out of the ruins of the palaces some very fine statues and pictures have been dug .
If anything would have made him angry , it would have been the seeing his favourite tree robbed , as he had promised himself the pleasure of giving his red apples to his grandchildren on his birthday .
I remember it was a dark green chaise with red wheels : and I remember I read the innkeeper ' s name upon the chaise , ' John Nelson .'
" Pray give me leave , sir ," said Paul , " to stay a few minutes , to look amongst these chaises for one dark green chaise with red wheels , that has Mr . John Nelson ' s name written upon it ."
Where else but from Nantucket did those aboriginal whalemen , the Red - Men , first sally out in canoes to give chase to the Leviathan ?
Further on , from the bright red windows of the " Sword - Fish Inn ," there came such fervent rays , that it seemed to have melted the packed snow and ice from before the house , for everywhere else the congealed frost lay ten inches thick in a hard , asphaltic pavement ,-- rather weary for me , when I struck my foot against the flinty projections , because from hard , remorseless service the soles of my boots were in a most miserable plight .
says old Dives , in his red silken wrapper --( he had a redder one afterwards ) pooh , pooh !
And the women of New Bedford , they bloom like their own red roses .
The wife of a whaling captain had provided the chapel with a handsome pair of red worsted man - ropes for this ladder , which , being itself nicely headed , and stained with a mahogany colour , the whole contrivance , considering what manner of chapel it was , seemed by no means in bad taste .
Look now at the wondrous traditional story of how this island was settled by the red - men .
I was called from these reflections by the sight of a freckled woman with yellow hair and a yellow gown , standing in the porch of the inn , under a dull red lamp swinging there , that looked much like an injured eye , and carrying on a brisk scolding with a man in a purple woollen shirt .
spring , thou chap with the red whiskers ; spring there , Scotch - cap ; spring , thou green pants .
Next was Tashtego , an unmixed Indian from Gay Head , the most westerly promontory of Martha ' s Vineyard , where there still exists the last remnant of a village of red men , which has long supplied the neighboring island of Nantucket with many of her most daring harpooneers .
For , as when the red - cheeked , dancing girls , April and May , trip home to the wintry , misanthropic woods ; even the barest , ruggedest , most thunder - cloven old oak will at least send forth some few green sprouts , to welcome such glad - hearted visitants ; so Ahab did , in the end , a little respond to the playful allurings of that girlish air .
Though in many natural objects , whiteness refiningly enhances beauty , as if imparting some special virtue of its own , as in marbles , japonicas , and pearls ; and though various nations have in some way recognised a certain royal preeminence in this hue ; even the barbaric , grand old kings of Pegu placing the title " Lord of the White Elephants " above all their other magniloquent ascriptions of dominion ; and the modern kings of Siam unfurling the same snow - white quadruped in the royal standard ; and the Hanoverian flag bearing the one figure of a snow - white charger ; and the great Austrian Empire , Caesarian , heir to overlording Rome , having for the imperial colour the same imperial hue ; and though this pre - eminence in it applies to the human race itself , giving the white man ideal mastership over every dusky tribe ; and though , besides , all this , whiteness has been even made significant of gladness , for among the Romans a white stone marked a joyful day ; and though in other mortal sympathies and symbolizings , this same hue is made the emblem of many touching , noble things -- the innocence of brides , the benignity of age ; though among the Red Men of America the giving of the white belt of wampum was the deepest pledge of honour ; though in many climes , whiteness typifies the majesty of Justice in the ermine of the Judge , and contributes to the daily state of kings and queens drawn by milk - white steeds ; though even in the higher mysteries of the most august religions it has been made the symbol of the divine spotlessness and power ; by the Persian fire worshippers , the white forked flame being held the holiest on the altar ; and in the Greek mythologies , Great Jove himself being made incarnate in a snow - white bull ; and though to the noble Iroquois , the midwinter sacrifice of the sacred White Dog was by far the holiest festival of their theology , that spotless , faithful creature being held the purest envoy they could send to the Great Spirit with the annual tidings of their own fidelity ; and though directly from the Latin word for white , all Christian priests derive the name of one part of their sacred vesture , the alb or tunic , worn beneath the cassock ; and though among the holy pomps of the Romish faith , white is specially employed in the celebration of the Passion of our Lord ; though in the Vision of St . John , white robes are given to the redeemed , and the four - and - twenty elders stand clothed in white before the great - white throne , and the Holy One that sitteth there white like wool ; yet for all these accumulated associations , with whatever is sweet , and honourable , and sublime , there yet lurks an elusive something in the innermost idea of this hue , which strikes more of panic to the soul than that redness which affrights in blood .
Only the infidel sharks in the audacious seas may give ear to such words , when , with tornado brow , and eyes of red murder , and foam - glued lips , Ahab leaped after his prey .
They contain round archipelagoes of romantic isles , even as the Polynesian waters do ; in large part , are shored by two great contrasting nations , as the Atlantic is ; they furnish long maritime approaches to our numerous territorial colonies from the East , dotted all round their banks ; here and there are frowned upon by batteries , and by the goat - like craggy guns of lofty Mackinaw ; they have heard the fleet thunderings of naval victories ; at intervals , they yield their beaches to wild barbarians , whose red painted faces flash from out their peltry wigwams ; for leagues and leagues are flanked by ancient and unentered forests , where the gaunt pines stand like serried lines of kings in Gothic genealogies ; those same woods harboring wild Afric beasts of prey , and silken creatures whose exported furs give robes to Tartar Emperors ; they mirror the paved capitals of Buffalo and Cleveland , as well as Winnebago villages ; they float alike the full - rigged merchant ship , the armed cruiser of the State , the steamer , and the beech canoe ; they are swept by Borean and dismasting blasts as direful as any that lash the salted wave ; they know what shipwrecks are , for out of sight of land , however inland , they have drowned full many a midnight ship with all its shrieking crew .
" Quitting the pump at last , with the rest of his band , the Lakeman went forward all panting , and sat himself down on the windlass ; his face fiery red , his eyes bloodshot , and wiping the profuse sweat from his brow .
Like Mark Antony , for days and days along his green - turfed , flowery Nile , he indolently floats , openly toying with his red - cheeked Cleopatra , ripening his apricot thigh upon the sunny deck .
But , at some distance , Moby Dick rose again , with some tatters of Radney ' s red woollen shirt , caught in the teeth that had destroyed him .
The red tide now poured from all sides of the monster like brooks down a hill .
The slanting sun playing upon this crimson pond in the sea , sent back its reflection into every face , so that they all glowed to each other like red men .
At last , gush after gush of clotted red gore , as if it had been the purple lees of red wine , shot into the frighted air ; and falling back again , ran dripping down his motionless flanks into the sea .
Though amid all the smoking horror and diabolism of a sea - fight , sharks will be seen longingly gazing up to the ship ' s decks , like hungry dogs round a table where red meat is being carved , ready to bolt down every killed man that is tossed to them ; and though , while the valiant butchers over the deck - table are thus cannibally carving each other ' s live meat with carving - knives all gilded and tasselled , the sharks , also , with their jewel - hilted mouths , are quarrelsomely carving away under the table at the dead meat ; and though , were you to turn the whole affair upside down , it would still be pretty much the same thing , that is to say , a shocking sharkish business enough for all parties ; and though sharks also are the invariable outriders of all slave ships crossing the Atlantic , systematically trotting alongside , to be handy in case a parcel is to be carried anywhere , or a dead slave to be decently buried ; and though one or two other like instances might be set down , touching the set terms , places , and occasions , when sharks do most socially congregate , and most hilariously feast ; yet is there no conceivable time or occasion when you will find them in such countless numbers , and in gayer or more jovial spirits , than around a dead sperm whale , moored by night to a whaleship at sea .
You would have thought we were offering up ten thousand red oxen to the sea gods .
" Pull now , men , like fifty thousand line - of - battle - ship loads of red - haired devils .
But not to speak of the passage through the whole length of the Mediterranean , and another passage up the Persian Gulf and Red Sea , such a supposition would involve the complete circumnavigation of all Africa in three days , not to speak of the Tigris waters , near the site of Nineveh , being too shallow for any whale to swim in .
Instead of sparkling water , he now spouts red blood .
Drawing across her bow , he perceived that in accordance with the fanciful French taste , the upper part of her stem - piece was carved in the likeness of a huge drooping stalk , was painted green , and for thorns had copper spikes projecting from it here and there ; the whole terminating in a symmetrical folded bulb of a bright red colour .
The sailors , in tasselled caps of red worsted , were getting the heavy tackles in readiness for the whales .
He was a small and dark , but rather delicate looking man for a sea - captain , with large whiskers and moustache , however ; and wore a red cotton velvet vest with watch - seals at his side .
Here lounged the watch , when not otherwise employed , looking into the red heat of the fire , till their eyes felt scorched in their heads .
As they narrated to each other their unholy adventures , their tales of terror told in words of mirth ; as their uncivilized laughter forked upwards out of them , like the flames from the furnace ; as to and fro , in their front , the harpooneers wildly gesticulated with their huge pronged forks and dippers ; as the wind howled on , and the sea leaped , and the ship groaned and dived , and yet steadfastly shot her red hell further and further into the blackness of the sea and the night , and scornfully champed the white bone in her mouth , and viciously spat round her on all sides ; then the rushing Pequod , freighted with savages , and laden with fire , and burning a corpse , and plunging into that blackness of darkness , seemed the material counterpart of her monomaniac commander ' s soul .
FORWARD , THE RED FLAME OF THE FORGE IS SEEN , WHERE THE BLACKSMITH IS AT WORK .)
He makes a fierce red flame there !
While yet a little distance from the forge , moody Ahab paused ; till at last , Perth , withdrawing his iron from the fire , began hammering it upon the anvil -- the red mass sending off the sparks in thick hovering flights , some of which flew close to Ahab .
The three men at her mast - head wore long streamers of narrow red bunting at their hats ; from the stern , a whale - boat was suspended , bottom down ; and hanging captive from the bowsprit was seen the long lower jaw of the last whale they had slain .
Why , my little man , you have pretty red hair , but you couldn ' t get afire now .
Now , the first time Ahab was perched aloft ; ere he had been there ten minutes ; one of those red - billed savage sea - hawks which so often fly incommodiously close round the manned mast - heads of whalemen in these latitudes ; one of these birds came wheeling and screaming round his head in a maze of untrackably swift circlings .
he pecks -- he tears the vane "-- pointing to the red flag flying at the main - truck --" Ha !
Meantime , for that one beholding instant , Tashtego ' s mast - head hammer remained suspended in his hand ; and the red flag , half - wrapping him as with a plaid , then streamed itself straight out from him , as his own forward - flowing heart ; while Starbuck and Stubb , standing upon the bowsprit beneath , caught sight of the down - coming monster just as soon as he .
Oh , Flask , for one red cherry ere we die !"
But as the last whelmings intermixingly poured themselves over the sunken head of the Indian at the mainmast , leaving a few inches of the erect spar yet visible , together with long streaming yards of the flag , which calmly undulated , with ironical coincidings , over the destroying billows they almost touched ;-- at that instant , a red arm and a hammer hovered backwardly uplifted in the open air , in the act of nailing the flag faster and yet faster to the subsiding spar .
the angry Victor hath recalled His ministers of vengeance and pursuit Back to the gates of Heaven : the sulphurous hail , Shot after us in storm , o ' erblown hath laid The fiery surge that from the precipice Of Heaven received us falling ; and the thunder , Winged with red lightning and impetuous rage , Perhaps hath spent his shafts , and ceases now To bellow through the vast and boundless Deep .
Nathless he so endured , till on the beach Of that inflamed sea he stood , and called His legions -- Angel Forms , who lay entranced Thick as autumnal leaves that strow the brooks In Vallombrosa , where th ' Etrurian shades High over - arched embower ; or scattered sedge Afloat , when with fierce winds Orion armed Hath vexed the Red - Sea coast , whose waves o ' erthrew Busiris and his Memphian chivalry , While with perfidious hatred they pursued The sojourners of Goshen , who beheld From the safe shore their floating carcases And broken chariot - wheels .
What if the breath that kindled those grim fires , Awaked , should blow them into sevenfold rage , And plunge us in the flames ; or from above Should intermitted vengeance arm again His red right hand to plague us ?
While thus he spake , the angelick squadron bright Turned fiery red , sharpening in mooned horns Their phalanx , and began to hem him round With ported spears , as thick as when a field Of Ceres ripe for harvest waving bends Her bearded grove of ears , which way the wind Sways them ; the careful plowman doubting stands , Left on the threshing floor his hopeless sheaves Prove chaff .
To whom the Angel , with a smile that glowed Celestial rosy red , Love ' s proper hue , Answered .
Stoope Romans , stoope , And let vs bathe our hands in Caesars blood Vp to the Elbowes , and besmeare our Swords : Then walke we forth , euen to the Market place , And wauing our red Weapons o ' re our heads , Let ' s all cry Peace , Freedome , and Liberty
Poore soule , his eyes are red as fire with weeping
O setting Sunne : As in thy red Rayes thou doest sinke to night ; So in his red blood Cassius day is set .
Pale , or red ?
And England , if my loue thou holdst at ought , As my great power thereof may giue thee sense , Since yet thy Cicatrice lookes raw and red After the Danish Sword , and thy free awe Payes homage to vs ; thou maist not coldly set Our Soueraigne Processe , which imports at full By Letters coniuring to that effect The present death of Hamlet .
It is a poyson temp ' red by himselfe : Exchange forgiuenesse with me , Noble Hamlet ; Mine and my Fathers death come not vpon thee , Nor thine on me .
no : this my Hand will rather The multitudinous Seas incarnardine , Making the Greene one , Red .
Go pricke thy face , and ouer - red thy feare Thou Lilly - liuer ' d Boy .
Still the present I raise aloft , still the future of the States I harbinge glad and sublime , And for the past I pronounce what the air holds of the red aborigines .
The red aborigines , Leaving natural breaths , sounds of rain and winds , calls as of birds and animals in the woods , syllabled to us for names , Okonee , Koosa , Ottawa , Monongahela , Sauk , Natchez , Chattahoochee , Kaqueta , Oronoco , Wabash , Miami , Saginaw , Chippewa , Oshkosh , Walla - Walla , Leaving such to the States they melt , they depart , charging the water and the land with names .
This grass is very dark to be from the white heads of old mothers , Darker than the colorless beards of old men , Dark to come from under the faint red roofs of mouths .
The youngster and the red - faced girl turn aside up the bushy hill , I peeringly view them from the top .
I saw the marriage of the trapper in the open air in the far west , the bride was a red girl , Her father and his friends sat near cross - legged and dumbly smoking , they had moccasins to their feet and large thick blankets hanging from their shoulders , On a bank lounged the trapper , he was drest mostly in skins , his luxuriant beard and curls protected his neck , he held his bride by the hand , She had long eyelashes , her head was bare , her coarse straight locks descended upon her voluptuous limbs and reach ' d to her feet .
I believe in those wing ' d purposes , And acknowledge red , yellow , white , playing within me , And consider green and violet and the tufted crown intentional , And do not call the tortoise unworthy because she is not something else , And the in the woods never studied the gamut , yet trills pretty well to me , And the look of the bay mare shames silliness out of me .
Seasons pursuing each other the plougher ploughs , the mower mows , and the winter - grain falls in the ground ; Off on the lakes the pike - fisher watches and waits by the hole in the frozen surface , The stumps stand thick round the clearing , the squatter strikes deep with his axe , Flatboatmen make fast towards dusk near the cotton - wood or pecan - trees , Coon - seekers go through the regions of the Red river or through those drain ' d by the Tennessee , or through those of the Arkansas , Torches shine in the dark that hangs on the Chattahooche or Altamahaw , Patriarchs sit at supper with sons and grandsons and great - grandsons around them , In walls of adobie , in canvas tents , rest hunters and trappers after their day ' s sport , The city sleeps and the country sleeps , The living sleep for their time , the dead sleep for their time , The old husband sleeps by his wife and the young husband sleeps by his wife ; And these tend inward to me , and I tend outward to them , And such as it is to be of these more or less I am , And of these one and all I weave the song of myself .
The sentries desert every other part of me , They have left me helpless to a red marauder , They all come to the headland to witness and assist against me .
By the city ' s quadrangular houses -- in log huts , camping with lumber - men , Along the ruts of the turnpike , along the dry gulch and rivulet bed , Weeding my onion - patch or hosing rows of carrots and parsnips , crossing savannas , trailing in forests , Prospecting , gold - digging , girdling the trees of a new purchase , Scorch ' d ankle - deep by the hot sand , hauling my boat down the shallow river , Where the panther walks to and fro on a limb overhead , where the buck turns furiously at the hunter , Where the rattlesnake suns his flabby length on a rock , where the otter is feeding on fish , Where the alligator in his tough pimples sleeps by the bayou , Where the black bear is searching for roots or honey , where the beaver pats the mud with his paddle - shaped tall ; Over the growing sugar , over the yellow - flower ' d cotton plant , over the rice in its low moist field , Over the sharp - peak ' d farm house , with its scallop ' d scum and slender shoots from the gutters , Over the western persimmon , over the long - leav ' d corn , over the delicate blue - flower flax , Over the white and brown buckwheat , a hummer and buzzer there with the rest , Over the dusky green of the rye as it ripples and shades in the breeze ; Scaling mountains , pulling myself cautiously up , holding on by low scragged limbs , Walking the path worn in the grass and beat through the leaves of the brush , Where the quail is whistling betwixt the woods and the wheat - lot , Where the bat flies in the Seventh - month eve , where the great goldbug drops through the dark , Where the brook puts out of the roots of the old tree and flows to the meadow , Where cattle stand and shake away flies with the tremulous shuddering of their hides , Where the cheese - cloth hangs in the kitchen , where andirons straddle the hearth - slab , where cobwebs fall in festoons from the rafters ; Where trip - hammers crash , where the press is whirling its cylinders , Wherever the human heart beats with terrible throes under its ribs , Where the pear - shaped balloon is floating aloft , ( floating in it myself and looking composedly down ,) Where the life - car is drawn on the slip - noose , where the heat hatches pale - green eggs in the dented sand , Where the she - whale swims with her calf and never forsakes it , Where the steam - ship trails hind - ways its long pennant of smoke , Where the fin of the shark cuts like a black chip out of the water , Where the half - burn ' d brig is riding on unknown currents , Where shells grow to her slimy deck , where the dead are corrupting below ; Where the dense - starr ' d flag is borne at the head of the regiments , Approaching Manhattan up by the long - stretching island , Under Niagara , the cataract falling like a veil over my countenance , Upon a door - step , upon the horse - block of hard wood outside , Upon the race - course , or enjoying picnics or jigs or a good game of base - ball , At he - festivals , with blackguard gibes , ironical license , bull - dances , drinking , laughter , At the cider - mill tasting the sweets of the brown mash , sucking the juice through a straw , At apple - peelings wanting kisses for all the red fruit I find , At musters , beach - parties , friendly bees , huskings , house - raisings ; Where the mocking - bird sounds his delicious gurgles , cackles , screams , weeps , Where the hay - rick stands in the barn - yard , where the dry - stalks are scatter ' d , where the brood - cow waits in the hovel , Where the bull advances to do his masculine work , where the stud to the mare , where the cock is treading the hen , Where the heifers browse , where geese nip their food with short jerks , Where sun - down shadows lengthen over the limitless and lonesome prairie , Where herds of buffalo make a crawling spread of the square miles far and near , Where the humming - bird shimmers , where the neck of the long - lived swan is curving and winding , Where the laughing - gull scoots by the shore , where she laughs her near - human laugh , Where bee - hives range on a gray bench in the garden half hid by the high weeds , Where band - neck ' d partridges roost in a ring on the ground with their heads out , Where burial coaches enter the arch ' d gates of a cemetery , Where winter wolves bark amid wastes of snow and icicled trees , Where the yellow - crown ' d heron comes to the edge of the marsh at night and feeds upon small crabs , Where the splash of swimmers and divers cools the warm noon , Where the katy - did works her chromatic reed on the walnut - tree over the well , Through patches of citrons and cucumbers with silver - wired leaves , Through the salt - lick or orange glade , or under conical firs , Through the gymnasium , through the curtain ' d saloon , through the office or public hall ; Pleas ' d with the native and pleas ' d with the foreign , pleas ' d with the new and old , Pleas ' d with the homely woman as well as the handsome , Pleas ' d with the quakeress as she puts off her bonnet and talks melodiously , Pleas ' d with the tune of the choir of the whitewash ' d church , Pleas ' d with the earnest words of the sweating Methodist preacher , impress ' d seriously at the camp - meeting ; Looking in at the shop - windows of Broadway the whole forenoon , flatting the flesh of my nose on the thick plate glass , Wandering the same afternoon with my face turn ' d up to the clouds , or down a lane or along the beach , My right and left arms round the sides of two friends , and I in the middle ; Coming home with the silent and dark - cheek ' d bush - boy , ( behind me he rides at the drape of the day ,) Far from the settlements studying the print of animals ' feet , or the moccasin print , By the cot in the hospital reaching lemonade to a feverish patient , Nigh the coffin ' d corpse when all is still , examining with a candle ; Voyaging to every port to dicker and adventure , Hurrying with the modern crowd as eager and fickle as any , Hot toward one I hate , ready in my madness to knife him , Solitary at midnight in my back yard , my thoughts gone from me a long while , Walking the old hills of Judaea with the beautiful gentle God by my side , Speeding through space , speeding through heaven and the stars , Speeding amid the seven satellites and the broad ring , and the diameter of eighty thousand miles , Speeding with tail ' d meteors , throwing fire - balls like the rest , Carrying the crescent child that carries its own full mother in its belly , Storming , enjoying , planning , loving , cautioning , Backing and filling , appearing and disappearing , I tread day and night such roads .
I lie in the night air in my red shirt , the pervading hush is for my sake , Painless after all I lie exhausted but not so unhappy , White and beautiful are the faces around me , the heads are bared of their fire - caps , The kneeling crowd fades with the light of the torches .
I take part , I see and hear the whole , The cries , curses , roar , the plaudits for well - aim ' d shots , The ambulanza slowly passing trailing its red drip , Workmen searching after damages , making indispensable repairs , The fall of grenades through the rent roof , the fan - shaped explosion , The whizz of limbs , heads , stone , wood , iron , high in the air .
Magnifying and applying come I , Outbidding at the start the old cautious hucksters , Taking myself the exact dimensions of Jehovah , Lithographing Kronos , Zeus his son , and Hercules his grandson , Buying drafts of Osiris , Isis , Belus , Brahma , Buddha , In my portfolio placing Manito loose , Allah on a leaf , the crucifix engraved , With Odin and the hideous - faced Mexitli and every idol and image , Taking them all for what they are worth and not a cent more , Admitting they were alive and did the work of their days , ( They bore mites as for unfledg ' d birds who have now to rise and fly and sing for themselves ,) Accepting the rough deific sketches to fill out better in myself , bestowing them freely on each man and woman I see , Discovering as much or more in a framer framing a house , Putting higher claims for him there with his roll ' d - up sleeves driving the mallet and chisel , Not objecting to special revelations , considering a curl of smoke or a hair on the back of my hand just as curious as any revelation , Lads ahold of fire - engines and hook - and - ladder ropes no less to me than the gods of the antique wars , Minding their voices peal through the crash of destruction , Their brawny limbs passing safe over charr ' d laths , their white foreheads whole and unhurt out of the flames ; By the mechanic ' s wife with her babe at her nipple interceding for every person born , Three scythes at harvest whizzing in a row from three lusty angels with shirts bagg ' d out at their waists , The snag - tooth ' d hostler with red hair redeeming sins past and to come , Selling all he possesses , traveling on foot to fee lawyers for his brother and sit by him while he is tried for forgery ; What was strewn in the amplest strewing the square rod about me , and not filling the square rod then , The bull and the bug never worshipp ' d half enough , Dung and dirt more admirable than was dream ' d , The supernatural of no account , myself waiting my time to be one of the supremes , The day getting ready for me when I shall do as much good as the best , and be as prodigious ; By my life - lumps !
Examine these limbs , red , black , or white , they are cunning in tendon and nerve , They shall be stript that you may see them .
the same red - running blood !
I dare not desert the likes of you in other men and women , nor the likes of the parts of you , I believe the likes of you are to stand or fall with the likes of the soul , ( and that they are the soul ,) I believe the likes of you shall stand or fall with my poems , and that they are my poems , Man ' s , woman ' s , child , youth ' s , wife ' s , husband ' s , mother ' s , father ' s , young man ' s , young woman ' s poems , Head , neck , hair , ears , drop and tympan of the ears , Eyes , eye - fringes , iris of the eye , eyebrows , and the waking or sleeping of the lids , Mouth , tongue , lips , teeth , roof of the mouth , jaws , and the jaw - hinges , Nose , nostrils of the nose , and the partition , Cheeks , temples , forehead , chin , throat , back of the neck , neck - slue , Strong shoulders , manly beard , scapula , hind - shoulders , and the ample side - round of the chest , Upper - arm , armpit , elbow - socket , lower - arm , arm - sinews , arm - bones , Wrist and wrist - joints , hand , palm , knuckles , thumb , forefinger , finger - joints , finger - nails , Broad breast - front , curling hair of the breast , breast - bone , breast - side , Ribs , belly , backbone , joints of the backbone , Hips , hip - sockets , hip - strength , inward and outward round , man - balls , man - root , Strong set of thighs , well carrying the trunk above , Leg - fibres , knee , knee - pan , upper - leg , under - leg , Ankles , instep , foot - ball , toes , toe - joints , the heel ; All attitudes , all the shapeliness , all the belongings of my or your body or of any one ' s body , male or female , The lung - sponges , the stomach - sac , the bowels sweet and clean , The brain in its folds inside the skull - frame , Sympathies , heart - valves , palate - valves , sexuality , maternity , Womanhood , and all that is a woman , and the man that comes from woman , The womb , the teats , nipples , breast - milk , tears , laughter , weeping , love - looks , love - perturbations and risings , The voice , articulation , language , whispering , shouting aloud , Food , drink , pulse , digestion , sweat , sleep , walking , swimming , Poise on the hips , leaping , reclining , embracing , arm - curving and tightening , The continual changes of the flex of the mouth , and around the eyes , The skin , the sunburnt shade , freckles , hair , The curious sympathy one feels when feeling with the hand the naked meat of the body , The circling rivers the breath , and breathing it in and out , The beauty of the waist , and thence of the hips , and thence downward toward the knees , The thin red jellies within you or within me , the bones and the marrow in the bones , The exquisite realization of health ; O I say these are not the parts and poems of the body only , but of the soul , O I say now these are the soul !
Spontaneous me , Nature , The loving day , the mounting sun , the friend I am happy with , The arm of my friend hanging idly over my shoulder , The hillside whiten ' d with blossoms of the mountain ash , The same late in autumn , the hues of red , yellow , drab , purple , and light and dark green , The rich coverlet of the grass , animals and birds , the private untrimm ' d bank , the primitive apples , the pebble - stones , Beautiful dripping fragments , the negligent list of one after another as I happen to call them to me or think of them , The real poems , ( what we call poems being merely pictures ,) The poems of the privacy of the night , and of men like me , This poem drooping shy and unseen that I always carry , and that all men carry , ( Know once for all , avow ' d on purpose , wherever are men like me , are our lusty lurking masculine poems ,) Love - thoughts , love - juice , love - odor , love - yielding , love - climbers , and the climbing sap , Arms and hands of love , lips of love , phallic thumb of love , breasts of love , bellies press ' d and glued together with love , Earth of chaste love , life that is only life after love , The body of my love , the body of the woman I love , the body of the man , the body of the earth , Soft forenoon airs that blow from the south - west , The hairy wild - bee that murmurs and hankers up and down , that gripes the full - grown lady - flower , curves upon her with amorous firm legs , takes his will of her , and holds himself tremulous and tight till he is satisfied ; The wet of woods through the early hours , Two sleepers at night lying close together as they sleep , one with an arm slanting down across and below the waist of the other , The smell of apples , aromas from crush ' d sage - plant , mint , birch - bark , The boy ' s longings , the glow and pressure as he confides to me what he was dreaming , The dead leaf whirling its spiral whirl and falling still and content to the ground , The no - form ' d stings that sights , people , objects , sting me with , The hubb ' d sting of myself , stinging me as much as it ever can any one , The sensitive , orbic , underlapp ' d brothers , that only privileged feelers may be intimate where they are , The curious roamer the hand roaming all over the body , the bashful withdrawing of flesh where the fingers soothingly pause and edge themselves , The limpid liquid within the young man , The vex ' d corrosion so pensive and so painful , The torment , the irritable tide that will not be at rest , The like of the same I feel , the like of the same in others , The young man that flushes and flushes , and the young woman that flushes and flushes , The young man that wakes deep at night , the hot hand seeking to repress what would master him , The mystic amorous night , the strange half - welcome pangs , visions , sweats , The pulse pounding through palms and trembling encircling fingers , the young man all color ' d , red , ashamed , angry ; The souse upon me of my lover the sea , as I lie willing and naked , The merriment of the twin babes that crawl over the grass in the sun , the mother never turning her vigilant eyes from them , The walnut - trunk , the walnut - husks , and the ripening or ripen ' d long - round walnuts , The continence of vegetables , birds , animals , The consequent meanness of me should I skulk or find myself indecent , while birds and animals never once skulk or find themselves indecent , The great chastity of paternity , to match the great chastity of maternity , The oath of procreation I have sworn , my Adamic and fresh daughters , The greed that eats me day and night with hungry gnaw , till I saturate what shall produce boys to fill my place when I am through , The wholesome relief , repose , content , And this bunch pluck ' d at random from myself , It has done its work -- I toss it carelessly to fall where it may .
trickle , slow drops , Candid from me falling , drip , bleeding drops , From wounds made to free you whence you were prison ' d , From my face , from my forehead and lips , From my breast , from within where I was conceal ' d , press forth red drops , confession drops , Stain every page , stain every song I sing , every word I say , bloody drops , Let them know your scarlet heat , let them glisten , Saturate them with yourself all ashamed and wet , Glow upon all I have written or shall write , bleeding drops , Let it all be seen in your light , blushing drops .
I see plenteous waters , I see mountain peaks , I see the sierras of Andes where they range , I see plainly the Himalayas , Chian Shahs , Altays , Ghauts , I see the giant pinnacles of Elbruz , Kazbek , Bazardjusi , I see the Styrian Alps , and the Karnac Alps , I see the Pyrenees , Balks , Carpathians , and to the north the Dofrafields , and off at sea mount Hecla , I see Vesuvius and Etna , the mountains of the Moon , and the Red mountains of Madagascar , I see the Lybian , Arabian , and Asiatic deserts , I see huge dreadful Arctic and Antarctic icebergs , I see the superior oceans and the inferior ones , the Atlantic and Pacific , the sea of Mexico , the Brazilian sea , and the sea of Peru , The waters of Hindustan , the China sea , and the gulf of Guinea , The Japan waters , the beautiful bay of Nagasaki land - lock ' d in its mountains , The spread of the Baltic , Caspian , Bothnia , the British shores , and the bay of Biscay , The clear - sunn ' d Mediterranean , and from one to another of its islands , The White sea , and the sea around Greenland .
You Austral negro , naked , red , sooty , with protrusive lip , groveling , seeking your food !
I too many and many a time cross ' d the river of old , Watched the Twelfth - month sea - gulls , saw them high in the air floating with motionless wings , oscillating their bodies , Saw how the glistening yellow lit up parts of their bodies and left the rest in strong shadow , Saw the slow - wheeling circles and the gradual edging toward the south , Saw the reflection of the summer sky in the water , Had my eyes dazzled by the shimmering track of beams , Look ' d at the fine centrifugal spokes of light round the shape of my head in the sunlit water , Look ' d on the haze on the hills southward and south - westward , Look ' d on the vapor as it flew in fleeces tinged with violet , Look ' d toward the lower bay to notice the vessels arriving , Saw their approach , saw aboard those that were near me , Saw the white sails of schooners and sloops , saw the ships at anchor , The sailors at work in the rigging or out astride the spars , The round masts , the swinging motion of the hulls , the slender serpentine pennants , The large and small steamers in motion , the pilots in their pilothouses , The white wake left by the passage , the quick tremulous whirl of the wheels , The flags of all nations , the falling of them at sunset , The scallop - edged waves in the twilight , the ladled cups , the frolic - some crests and glistening , The stretch afar growing dimmer and dimmer , the gray walls of the granite storehouses by the docks , On the river the shadowy group , the big steam - tug closely flank ' d on each side by the barges , the hay - boat , the belated lighter , On the neighboring shore the fires from the foundry chimneys burning high and glaringly into the night , Casting their flicker of black contrasted with wild red and yellow light over the tops of houses , and down into the clefts of streets .
cast red and yellow light over the tops of the houses !
Always Florida ' s green peninsula -- always the priceless delta of Louisiana -- always the cotton - fields of Alabama and Texas , Always California ' s golden hills and hollows , and the silver mountains of New Mexico -- always soft - breath ' d Cuba , Always the vast slope drain ' d by the Southern sea , inseparable with the slopes drain ' d by the Eastern and Western seas , The area the eighty - third year of these States , the three and a half millions of square miles , The eighteen thousand miles of sea - coast and bay - coast on the main , the thirty thousand miles of river navigation , The seven millions of distinct families and the same number of dwellings -- always these , and more , branching forth into numberless branches , Always the free range and diversity -- always the continent of Democracy ; Always the prairies , pastures , forests , vast cities , travelers , Kanada , the snows ; Always these compact lands tied at the hips with the belt stringing the huge oval lakes ; Always the West with strong native persons , the increasing density there , the habitans , friendly , threatening , ironical , scorning invaders ; All sights , South , North , East -- all deeds , promiscuously done at all times , All characters , movements , growths , a few noticed , myriads unnoticed , Through Mannahatta ' s streets I walking , these things gathering , On interior rivers by night in the glare of pine knots , steamboats wooding up , Sunlight by day on the valley of the Susquehanna , and on the valleys of the Potomac and Rappahannock , and the valleys of the Roanoke and Delaware , In their northerly wilds beasts of prey haunting the Adirondacks the hills , or lapping the Saginaw waters to drink , In a lonesome inlet a sheldrake lost from the flock , sitting on the water rocking silently , In farmers ' barns oxen in the stable , their harvest labor done , they rest standing , they are too tired , Afar on arctic ice the she - walrus lying drowsily while her cubs play around , The hawk sailing where men have not yet sail ' d , the farthest polar sea , ripply , crystalline , open , beyond the floes , White drift spooning ahead where the ship in the tempest dashes , On solid land what is done in cities as the bells strike midnight together , In primitive woods the sounds there also sounding , the howl of the wolf , the scream of the panther , and the hoarse bellow of the elk , In winter beneath the hard blue ice of Moosehead lake , in summer visible through the clear waters , the great trout swimming , In lower latitudes in warmer air in the Carolinas the large black buzzard floating slowly high beyond the tree tops , Below , the red cedar festoon ' d with tylandria , the pines and cypresses growing out of the white sand that spreads far and flat , Rude boats descending the big Pedee , climbing plants , parasites with color ' d flowers and berries enveloping huge trees , The waving drapery on the live - oak trailing long and low , noiselessly waved by the wind , The camp of Georgia wagoners just after dark , the supper - fires and the cooking and eating by whites and negroes , Thirty or forty great wagons , the mules , cattle , horses , feeding from troughs , The shadows , gleams , up under the leaves of the old sycamore - trees , the flames with the black smoke from the pitch - pine curling and rising ; Southern fishermen fishing , the sounds and inlets of North Carolina ' s coast , the shad - fishery and the herring - fishery , the large sweep - seines , the windlasses on shore work ' d by horses , the clearing , curing , and packing - houses ; Deep in the forest in piney woods turpentine dropping from the incisions in the trees , there are the turpentine works , There are the negroes at work in good health , the ground in all directions is cover ' d with pine straw ; In Tennessee and Kentucky slaves busy in the coalings , at the forge , by the furnace - blaze , or at the corn - shucking , In Virginia , the planter ' s son returning after a long absence , joyfully welcom ' d and kiss ' d by the aged mulatto nurse , On rivers boatmen safely moor ' d at nightfall in their boats under shelter of high banks , Some of the younger men dance to the sound of the banjo or fiddle , others sit on the gunwale smoking and talking ; Late in the afternoon the mocking - bird , the American mimic , singing in the Great Dismal Swamp , There are the greenish waters , the resinous odor , the plenteous moss , the cypress - tree , and the juniper - tree ; Northward , young men of Mannahatta , the target company from an excursion returning home at evening , the musket - muzzles all bear bunches of flowers presented by women ; Children at play , or on his father ' s lap a young boy fallen asleep , ( how his lips move !
all so dear to me -- what you are , ( whatever it is ,) I putting it at random in these songs , become a part of that , whatever it is , Southward there , I screaming , with wings slow flapping , with the myriads of gulls wintering along the coasts of Florida , Otherways there atwixt the banks of the Arkansaw , the Rio Grande , the Nueces , the Brazos , the Tombigbee , the Red River , the Saskatchawan or the Osage , I with the spring waters laughing and skipping and running , Northward , on the sands , on some shallow bay of Paumanok , I with parties of snowy herons wading in the wet to seek worms and aquatic plants , Retreating , triumphantly twittering , the king - bird , from piercing the crow with its bill , for amusement -- and I triumphantly twittering , The migrating flock of wild geese alighting in autumn to refresh themselves , the body of the flock feed , the sentinels outside move around with erect heads watching , and are from time to time reliev ' d by other sentinels -- and I feeding and taking turns with the rest , In Kanadian forests the moose , large as an ox , corner ' d by hunters , rising desperately on his hind - feet , and plunging with his fore - feet , the hoofs as sharp as knives -- and I , plunging at the hunters , corner ' d and desperate , In the Mannahatta , streets , piers , shipping , store - houses , and the countless workmen working in the shops , And I too of the Mannahatta , singing thereof -- and no less in myself than the whole of the Mannahatta in itself , Singing the song of These , my ever - united lands -- my body no more inevitably united , part to part , and made out of a thousand diverse contributions one identity , any more than my lands are inevitably united and made ONE IDENTITY ; Nativities , climates , the grass of the great pastoral Plains , Cities , labors , death , animals , products , war , good and evil -- these me , These affording , in all their particulars , the old feuillage to me and to America , how can I do less than pass the clew of the union of them , to afford the like to you ?
1 Weapon shapely , naked , wan , Head from the mother ' s bowels drawn , Wooded flesh and metal bone , limb only one and lip only one , Gray - blue leaf by red - heat grown , helve produced from a little seed sown , Resting the grass amid and upon , To be lean ' d and to lean on .
8 I see the European headsman , He stands mask ' d , clothed in red , with huge legs and strong naked arms , And leans on a ponderous axe .
Not wan from Asia ' s fetiches , Nor red from Europe ' s old dynastic slaughter - house , ( Area of murder - plots of thrones , with scent left yet of wars and scaffolds everywhere , But come from Nature ' s long and harmless throes , peacefully builded thence , These virgin lands , lands of the Western shore , To the new culminating man , to you , the empire new , You promis ' d long , we pledge , we dedicate .
Hence I sign this salute over the sea , And I do not deny that terrible red birth and baptism , But remember the little voice that I heard wailing , and wait with perfect trust , no matter how long , And from to - day sad and cogent I maintain the bequeath ' d cause , as for all lands , And I send these words to Paris with my love , And I guess some chansonniers there will understand them , For I guess there is latent music yet in France , floods of it , O I hear already the bustle of instruments , they will soon be drowning all that would interrupt them , O I think the east wind brings a triumphal and free march , It reaches hither , it swells me to Joyful madness , I will run transpose it in words , to justify I will yet sing a song for you ma femme .
is the red signal flaring ?)
Yet behind all lowering stealing , lo , a shape , Vague as the night , draped interminably , head , front and form , in scarlet folds , Whose face and eyes none may see , Out of its robes only this , the red robes lifted by the arm , One finger crook ' d pointed high over the top , like the head of a snake appears .
the cry everywhere , The flags flung out from the steeples of churches and from all the public buildings and stores , The tearful parting , the mother kisses her son , the son kisses his mother , ( Loth is the mother to part , yet not a word does she speak to detain him ,) The tumultuous escort , the ranks of policemen preceding , clearing the way , The unpent enthusiasm , the wild cheers of the crowd for their favorites , The artillery , the silent cannons bright as gold , drawn along , rumble lightly over the stones , ( Silent cannons , soon to cease your silence , Soon unlimber ' d to begin the red business ;) All the mutter of preparation , all the determin ' d arming , The hospital service , the lint , bandages and medicines , The women volunteering for nurses , the work begun for in earnest , no mere parade now ; War !
Poet : Fresh and rosy red the sun is mounting high , On floats the sea in distant blue careering through its channels , On floats the wind over the breast of the sea setting in toward land , The great steady wind from west or west - by - south , Floating so buoyant with milk - white foam on the waters .
But I am not the sea nor the red sun , I am not the wind with girlish laughter , Not the immense wind which strengthens , not the wind which lashes , Not the spirit that ever lashes its own body to terror and death , But I am that which unseen comes and sings , sings , sings , Which babbles in brooks and scoots in showers on the land , Which the birds know in the woods mornings and evenings , And the shore - sands know and the hissing wave , and that banner and pennant , Aloft there flapping and flapping .
I have rejected nothing you offer ' d me -- whom you adopted I have adopted , Good or bad I never question you -- I love all -- I do not condemn any thing , I chant and celebrate all that is yours -- yet peace no more , In peace I chanted peace , but now the drum of war is mine , War , red war is my song through your streets , O city !
I tell not now the whole of the battle , But one brigade early in the forenoon order ' d forward to engage the red - coats , Of that brigade I tell , and how steadily it march ' d , And how long and well it stood confronting death .
A march in the ranks hard - prest , and the road unknown , A route through a heavy wood with muffled steps in the darkness , Our army foil ' d with loss severe , and the sullen remnant retreating , Till after midnight glimmer upon us the lights of a dim - lighted building , We come to an open space in the woods , and halt by the dim - lighted building , ' Tis a large old church at the crossing roads , now an impromptu hospital , Entering but for a minute I see a sight beyond all the pictures and poems ever made , Shadows of deepest , deepest black , just lit by moving candles and lamps , And by one great pitchy torch stationary with wild red flame and clouds of smoke , By these , crowds , groups of forms vaguely I see on the floor , some in the pews laid down , At my feet more distinctly a soldier , a mere lad , in danger of bleeding to death , ( he is shot in the abdomen ,) I stanch the blood temporarily , ( the youngster ' s face is white as a lily ,) Then before I depart I sweep my eyes o ' er the scene fain to absorb it all , Faces , varieties , postures beyond description , most in obscurity , some of them dead , Surgeons operating , attendants holding lights , the smell of ether , odor of blood , The crowd , O the crowd of the bloody forms , the yard outside also fill ' d , Some on the bare ground , some on planks or stretchers , some in the death - spasm sweating , An occasional scream or cry , the doctor ' s shouted orders or calls , The glisten of the little steel instruments catching the glint of the torches , These I resume as I chant , I see again the forms , I smell the odor , Then hear outside the orders given , Fall in , my men , fall in ; But first I bend to the dying lad , his eyes open , a half - smile gives he me , Then the eyes close , calmly close , and I speed forth to the darkness , Resuming , marching , ever in darkness marching , on in the ranks , The unknown road still marching .
1 Give me the splendid silent sun with all his beams full - dazzling , Give me autumnal fruit ripe and red from the orchard , Give me a field where the unmow ' d grass grows , Give me an arbor , give me the trellis ' d grape , Give me fresh corn and wheat , give me serene - moving animals teaching content , Give me nights perfectly quiet as on high plateaus west of the Mississippi , and I looking up at the stars , Give me odorous at sunrise a garden of beautiful flowers where I can walk undisturb ' d , Give me for marriage a sweet - breath ' d woman of whom I should never tire , Give me a perfect child , give me away aside from the noise of the world a rural domestic life , Give me to warble spontaneous songs recluse by myself , for my own ears only , Give me solitude , give me Nature , give me again O Nature your primal sanities !
of the rifle - balls , I see the shells exploding leaving small white clouds , I hear the great shells shrieking as they pass , The grape like the hum and whirr of wind through the trees , ( tumultuous now the contest rages ,) All the scenes at the batteries rise in detail before me again , The crashing and smoking , the pride of the men in their pieces , The chief - gunner ranges and sights his piece and selects a fuse of the right time , After firing I see him lean aside and look eagerly off to note the effect ; Elsewhere I hear the cry of a regiment charging , ( the young colonel leads himself this time with brandish ' d sword ,) I see the gaps cut by the enemy ' s volleys , ( quickly fill ' d up , no delay ,) I breathe the suffocating smoke , then the flat clouds hover low concealing all ; Now a strange lull for a few seconds , not a shot fired on either side , Then resumed the chaos louder than ever , with eager calls and orders of officers , While from some distant part of the field the wind wafts to my ears a shout of applause , ( some special success ,) And ever the sound of the cannon far or near , ( rousing even in dreams a devilish exultation and all the old mad joy in the depths of my soul ,) And ever the hastening of infantry shifting positions , batteries , cavalry , moving hither and thither , ( The falling , dying , I heed not , the wounded dripping and red heed not , some to the rear are hobbling ,) Grime , heat , rush , aide - de - camps galloping by or on a full run , With the patter of small arms , the warning s - s - t of the rifles , ( these in my vision I hear or see ,) And bombs bursting in air , and at night the vari - color ' d rockets .
Why wag your head with turban bound , yellow , red and green ?
Ere departing fade from my eyes your forests of bayonets ; Spirit of gloomiest fears and doubts , ( yet onward ever unfaltering pressing ,) Spirit of many a solemn day and many a savage scene -- electric spirit , That with muttering voice through the war now closed , like a tireless phantom flitted , Rousing the land with breath of flame , while you beat and beat the drum , Now as the sound of the drum , hollow and harsh to the last , reverberates round me , As your ranks , your immortal ranks , return , return from the battles , As the muskets of the young men yet lean over their shoulders , As I look on the bayonets bristling over their shoulders , As those slanted bayonets , whole forests of them appearing in the distance , approach and pass on , returning homeward , Moving with steady motion , swaying to and fro to the right and left , Evenly lightly rising and falling while the steps keep time ; Spirit of hours I knew , all hectic red one day , but pale as death next day , Touch my mouth ere you depart , press my lips close , Leave me your pulses of rage -- bequeath them to me -- fill me with currents convulsive , Let them scorch and blister out of my chants when you are gone , Let them identify you to the future in these songs .
Adieu O soldier , You of the rude campaigning , ( which we shared ,) The rapid march , the life of the camp , The hot contention of opposing fronts , the long manoeuvre , Red battles with their slaughter , the stimulus , the strong terrific game , Spell of all brave and manly hearts , the trains of time through you and like of you all fill ' d , With war and war ' s expression .
O the bleeding drops of red , Where on the deck my Captain lies , Fallen cold and dead .
Of them standing among them , one lifts to the light a west - bred face , To him the hereditary countenance bequeath ' d both mother ' s and father ' s , His first parts substances , earth , water , animals , trees , Built of the common stock , having room for far and near , Used to dispense with other lands , incarnating this land , Attracting it body and soul to himself , hanging on its neck with incomparable love , Plunging his seminal muscle into its merits and demerits , Making its cities , beginnings , events , diversities , wars , vocal in him , Making its rivers , lakes , bays , embouchure in him , Mississippi with yearly freshets and changing chutes , Columbia , Niagara , Hudson , spending themselves lovingly in him , If the Atlantic coast stretch or the Pacific coast stretch , he stretching with them North or South , Spanning between them East and West , and touching whatever is between them , Growths growing from him to offset the growths of pine , cedar , hemlock , live - oak , locust , chestnut , hickory , cottonwood , orange , magnolia , Tangles as tangled in him as any canebrake or swamp , He likening sides and peaks of mountains , forests coated with northern transparent ice , Off him pasturage sweet and natural as savanna , upland , prairie , Through him flights , whirls , screams , answering those of the fish - hawk , mocking - bird , night - heron , and eagle , His spirit surrounding his country ' s spirit , unclosed to good and evil , Surrounding the essences of real things , old times and present times , Surrounding just found shores , islands , tribes of red aborigines , Weather - beaten vessels , landings , settlements , embryo stature and muscle , The haughty defiance of the Year One , war , peace , the formation of the Constitution , The separate States , the simple elastic scheme , the immigrants , The Union always swarming with blatherers and always sure and impregnable , The unsurvey ' d interior , log - houses , clearings , wild animals , hunters , trappers , Surrounding the multiform agriculture , mines , temperature , the gestation of new States , Congress convening every Twelfth - month , the members duly coming up from the uttermost parts , Surrounding the noble character of mechanics and farmers , especially the young men , Responding their manners , speech , dress , friendships , the gait they have of persons who never knew how it felt to stand in the presence of superiors , The freshness and candor of their physiognomy , the copiousness and decision of their phrenology , The picturesque looseness of their carriage , their fierceness when wrong ' d , The fluency of their speech , their delight in music , their curiosity , good temper and open - handedness , the whole composite make , The prevailing ardor and enterprise , the large amativeness , The perfect equality of the female with the male , the fluid movement of the population , The superior marine , free commerce , fisheries , whaling , gold - digging , Wharf - hemm ' d cities , railroad and steamboat lines intersecting all points , Factories , mercantile life , labor - saving machinery , the Northeast , Northwest , Southwest , Manhattan firemen , the Yankee swap , southern plantation life , Slavery -- the murderous , treacherous conspiracy to raise it upon the ruins of all the rest , On and on to the grapple with it -- Assassin !
Not there your victory on those red shuddering fields , But here and hence your victory .
The early lilacs became part of this child , And grass and white and red morning - glories , and white and red clover , and the song of the phoebe - bird , And the Third - month lambs and the sow ' s pink - faint litter , and the mare ' s foal and the cow ' s calf , And the noisy brood of the barnyard or by the mire of the pond - side , And the fish suspending themselves so curiously below there , and the beautiful curious liquid , And the water - plants with their graceful flat heads , all became part of him .
A festival song , The duet of the bridegroom and the bride , a marriage - march , With lips of love , and hearts of lovers fill ' d to the brim with love , The red - flush ' d cheeks and perfumes , the cortege swarming full of friendly faces young and old , To flutes ' clear notes and sounding harps ' cantabile .
You lofty and dazzling towers , pinnacled , red as roses , burnish ' d with gold !
O morning red !
What are you doing you ruffianly red - trickled waves ?
A red squaw came one breakfast - time to the old homestead , On her back she carried a bundle of rushes for rush - bottoming chairs , Her hair , straight , shiny , coarse , black , profuse , half - envelop ' d her face , Her step was free and elastic , and her voice sounded exquisitely as she spoke .
The red squaw staid all the forenoon , and toward the middle of the afternoon she went away , O my mother was loth to have her go away , All the week she thought of her , she watch ' d for her many a month , She remember ' d her many a winter and many a summer , But the red squaw never came nor was heard of there again .
The homeward bound and the outward bound , The beautiful lost swimmer , the ennuye , the onanist , the female that loves unrequited , the money - maker , The actor and actress , those through with their parts and those waiting to commence , The affectionate boy , the husband and wife , the voter , the nominee that is chosen and the nominee that has fail ' d , The great already known and the great any time after to - day , The stammerer , the sick , the perfect - form ' d , the homely , The criminal that stood in the box , the judge that sat and sentenced him , the fluent lawyers , the jury , the audience , The laugher and weeper , the dancer , the midnight widow , the red squaw , The consumptive , the erysipalite , the idiot , he that is wrong ' d , The antipodes , and every one between this and them in the dark , I swear they are averaged now -- one is no better than the other , The night and sleep have liken ' d them and restored them .
Off the word I have spoken I except not one -- red , white , black , are all deific , In each house is the ovum , it comes forth after a thousand years .
Weave in , weave in , my hardy life , Weave yet a soldier strong and full for great campaigns to come , Weave in red blood , weave sinews in like ropes , the senses , sight weave in , Weave lasting sure , weave day and night the wet , the warp , incessant weave , tire not , ( We know not what the use O life , nor know the aim , the end , nor really aught we know , But know the work , the need goes on and shall go on , the death - envelop ' d march of peace as well as war goes on ,) For great campaigns of peace the same the wiry threads to weave , We know not why or what , yet weave , forever weave .
Again old heart so gay , again to you , your sense , the full flush spring returning , Again the freshness and the odors , again Virginia ' s summer sky , pellucid blue and silver , Again the forenoon purple of the hills , Again the deathless grass , so noiseless soft and green , Again the blood - red roses blooming .
Perfume this book of mine O blood - red roses !
Spirit that form ' d this scene , These tumbled rock - piles grim and red , These reckless heaven - ambitious peaks , These gorges , turbulent - clear streams , this naked freshness , These formless wild arrays , for reasons of their own , I know thee , savage spirit -- we have communed together , Mine too such wild arrays , for reasons of their own ; Wast charged against my chants they had forgotten art ?
} Red Jacket ( From Aloft )
