A few inferior dwellings were first to be passed , and then , about a quarter of a mile down the lane rose the Vicarage , an old and not very good house , almost as close to the road as it could be .
But -- that he should talk of encouragement , should consider her as aware of his views , accepting his attentions , meaning ( in short ), to marry him !-- should suppose himself her equal in connexion or mind !-- look down upon her friend , so well understanding the gradations of rank below him , and be so blind to what rose above , as to fancy himself shewing no presumption in addressing her !-- It was most provoking .
The aunt was as tiresome as ever ; more tiresome , because anxiety for her health was now added to admiration of her powers ; and they had to listen to the description of exactly how little bread and butter she ate for breakfast , and how small a slice of mutton for dinner , as well as to see exhibitions of new caps and new workbags for her mother and herself ; and Jane ' s offences rose again .
His son , too well bred to hear the hint , rose immediately also , saying ,
He stopt again , rose again , and seemed quite embarrassed .-- He was more in love with her than Emma had supposed ; and who can say how it might have ended , if his father had not made his appearance ?
Disputable , however , as might be the taste of such a termination , it was in itself a charming walk , and the view which closed it extremely pretty .-- The considerable slope , at nearly the foot of which the Abbey stood , gradually acquired a steeper form beyond its grounds ; and at half a mile distant was a bank of considerable abruptness and grandeur , well clothed with wood ;-- and at the bottom of this bank , favourably placed and sheltered , rose the Abbey Mill Farm , with meadows in front , and the river making a close and handsome curve around it .
Mr . Weston , his son , Emma , and Harriet , only remained ; and the young man ' s spirits now rose to a pitch almost unpleasant .
She rose early , and wrote her letter to Harriet ; an employment which left her so very serious , so nearly sad , that Mr . Knightley , in walking up to Hartfield to breakfast , did not arrive at all too soon ; and half an hour stolen afterwards to go over the same ground again with him , literally and figuratively , was quite necessary to reinstate her in a proper share of the happiness of the evening before .
No , these were noises which belonged to the winter pleasures ; her spirits rose under their influence ; and like Mrs Musgrove , she was feeling , though not saying , that after being long in the country , nothing could be so good for her as a little quiet cheerfulness .
High hills rose immediately behind , and at no great distance on each side ; some of which were open downs , the others cultivated and woody .
Elinor and her mother rose up in amazement at their entrance , and while the eyes of both were fixed on him with an evident wonder and a secret admiration which equally sprung from his appearance , he apologized for his intrusion by relating its cause , in a manner so frank and so graceful that his person , which was uncommonly handsome , received additional charms from his voice and expression .
When Lady Middleton rose to go away , Mr . Palmer rose also , laid down the newspaper , stretched himself and looked at them all around .
Sir John ' s confidence in his own judgment rose with this animated praise , and he set off directly for the cottage to tell the Miss Dashwoods of the Miss Steeles ' arrival , and to assure them of their being the sweetest girls in the world .
Now there ' s Mr . Rose at Exeter , a prodigious smart young man , quite a beau , clerk to Mr . Simpson , you know , and yet if you do but meet him of a morning , he is not fit to be seen .-- I suppose your brother was quite a beau , Miss Dashwood , before he married , as he was so rich ?"
They all rose up in preparation for a round game .
Marianne rose the next morning with recovered spirits and happy looks .
He listened to her with silent attention , and on her ceasing to speak , rose directly from his seat , and after saying in a voice of emotion , " to your sister I wish all imaginable happiness ; to Willoughby that he may endeavour to deserve her ,"-- took leave , and went away .
Every body ' s attention was called , and almost every body was concerned .-- Colonel Brandon rose up and went to them without knowing what he did .-- Mrs .
Once Lucy thought to write to him , but then her spirits rose against that .
He rose up , and walked across the room .
She began to think that be must be in liquor ;-- the strangeness of such a visit , and of such manners , seemed no otherwise intelligible ; and with this impression she immediately rose , saying ,
He rose from his seat , and walked to the window , apparently from not knowing what to do ; took up a pair of scissors that lay there , and while spoiling both them and their sheath by cutting the latter to pieces as he spoke , said , in a hurried voice ,
4 : 8 And Cain talked with Abel his brother : and it came to pass , when they were in the field , that Cain rose up against Abel his brother , and slew him .
18 : 16 And the men rose up from thence , and looked toward Sodom : and Abraham went with them to bring them on the way .
19 : 1 And there came two angels to Sodom at even ; and Lot sat in the gate of Sodom : and Lot seeing them rose up to meet them ; and he bowed himself with his face toward the ground ; 19 : 2 And he said , Behold now , my lords , turn in , I pray you , into your servant ' s house , and tarry all night , and wash your feet , and ye shall rise up early , and go on your ways .
20 : 8 Therefore Abimelech rose early in the morning , and called all his servants , and told all these things in their ears : and the men were sore afraid .
21 : 14 And Abraham rose up early in the morning , and took bread , and a bottle of water , and gave it unto Hagar , putting it on her shoulder , and the child , and sent her away : and she departed , and wandered in the wilderness of Beersheba .
21 : 32 Thus they made a covenant at Beersheba : then Abimelech rose up , and Phichol the chief captain of his host , and they returned into the land of the Philistines .
22 : 3 And Abraham rose up early in the morning , and saddled his ass , and took two of his young men with him , and Isaac his son , and clave the wood for the burnt offering , and rose up , and went unto the place of which God had told him .
22 : 19 So Abraham returned unto his young men , and they rose up and went together to Beersheba ; and Abraham dwelt at Beersheba .
24 : 54 And they did eat and drink , he and the men that were with him , and tarried all night ; and they rose up in the morning , and he said , Send me away unto my master .
25 : 34 Then Jacob gave Esau bread and pottage of lentiles ; and he did eat and drink , and rose up , and went his way : thus Esau despised his birthright .
26 : 31 And they rose up betimes in the morning , and sware one to another : and Isaac sent them away , and they departed from him in peace .
28 : 18 And Jacob rose up early in the morning , and took the stone that he had put for his pillows , and set it up for a pillar , and poured oil upon the top of it .
31 : 17 Then Jacob rose up , and set his sons and his wives upon camels ; 31 : 18 And he carried away all his cattle , and all his goods which he had gotten , the cattle of his getting , which he had gotten in Padanaram , for to go to Isaac his father in the land of Canaan .
31 : 21 So he fled with all that he had ; and he rose up , and passed over the river , and set his face toward the mount Gilead .
31 : 55 And early in the morning Laban rose up , and kissed his sons and his daughters , and blessed them : and Laban departed , and returned unto his place .
32 : 22 And he rose up that night , and took his two wives , and his two womenservants , and his eleven sons , and passed over the ford Jabbok .
32 : 31 And as he passed over Penuel the sun rose upon him , and he halted upon his thigh .
37 : 35 And all his sons and all his daughters rose up to comfort him ; but he refused to be comforted ; and he said , For I will go down into the grave unto my son mourning .
43 : 15 And the men took that present , and they took double money in their hand and Benjamin ; and rose up , and went down to Egypt , and stood before Joseph .
46 : 5 And Jacob rose up from Beersheba : and the sons of Israel carried Jacob their father , and their little ones , and their wives , in the wagons which Pharaoh had sent to carry him .
10 : 22 And Moses stretched forth his hand toward heaven ; and there was a thick darkness in all the land of Egypt three days : 10 : 23 They saw not one another , neither rose any from his place for three days : but all the children of Israel had light in their dwellings .
12 : 30 And Pharaoh rose up in the night , he , and all his servants , and all the Egyptians ; and there was a great cry in Egypt ; for there was not a house where there was not one dead .
15 : 7 And in the greatness of thine excellency thou hast overthrown them that rose up against thee : thou sentest forth thy wrath , which consumed them as stubble .
24 : 4 And Moses wrote all the words of the LORD , and rose up early in the morning , and builded an altar under the hill , and twelve pillars , according to the twelve tribes of Israel .
24 : 13 And Moses rose up , and his minister Joshua : and Moses went up into the mount of God .
32 : 6 And they rose up early on the morrow , and offered burnt offerings , and brought peace offerings ; and the people sat down to eat and to drink , and rose up to play .
33 : 8 And it came to pass , when Moses went out unto the tabernacle , that all the people rose up , and stood every man at his tent door , and looked after Moses , until he was gone into the tabernacle .
33 : 10 And all the people saw the cloudy pillar stand at the tabernacle door : and all the people rose up and worshipped , every man in his tent door .
34 : 4 And he hewed two tables of stone like unto the first ; and Moses rose up early in the morning , and went up unto mount Sinai , as the LORD had commanded him , and took in his hand the two tables of stone .
14 : 40 And they rose up early in the morning , and gat them up into the top of the mountain , saying , Lo , we be here , and will go up unto the place which the LORD hath promised : for we have sinned .
16 : 1 Now Korah , the son of Izhar , the son of Kohath , the son of Levi , and Dathan and Abiram , the sons of Eliab , and On , the son of Peleth , sons of Reuben , took men : 16 : 2 And they rose up before Moses , with certain of the children of Israel , two hundred and fifty princes of the assembly , famous in the congregation , men of renown : 16 : 3 And they gathered themselves together against Moses and against Aaron , and said unto them , Ye take too much upon you , seeing all the congregation are holy , every one of them , and the LORD is among them : wherefore then lift ye up yourselves above the congregation of the LORD ?
16 : 25 And Moses rose up and went unto Dathan and Abiram ; and the elders of Israel followed him .
22 : 13 And Balaam rose up in the morning , and said unto the princes of Balak , Get you into your land : for the LORD refuseth to give me leave to go with you .
22 : 14 And the princes of Moab rose up , and they went unto Balak , and said , Balaam refuseth to come with us .
22 : 21 And Balaam rose up in the morning , and saddled his ass , and went with the princes of Moab .
24 : 25 And Balaam rose up , and went and returned to his place : and Balak also went his way .
25 : 7 And when Phinehas , the son of Eleazar , the son of Aaron the priest , saw it , he rose up from among the congregation , and took a javelin in his hand ; 25 : 8 And he went after the man of Israel into the tent , and thrust both of them through , the man of Israel , and the woman through her belly .
33 : 2 And he said , The LORD came from Sinai , and rose up from Seir unto them ; he shined forth from mount Paran , and he came with ten thousands of saints : from his right hand went a fiery law for them .
3 : 1 And Joshua rose early in the morning ; and they removed from Shittim , and came to Jordan , he and all the children of Israel , and lodged there before they passed over .
3 : 14 And it came to pass , when the people removed from their tents , to pass over Jordan , and the priests bearing the ark of the covenant before the people ; 3 : 15 And as they that bare the ark were come unto Jordan , and the feet of the priests that bare the ark were dipped in the brim of the water , ( for Jordan overfloweth all his banks all the time of harvest ,) 3 : 16 That the waters which came down from above stood and rose up upon an heap very far from the city Adam , that is beside Zaretan : and those that came down toward the sea of the plain , even the salt sea , failed , and were cut off : and the people passed over right against Jericho .
6 : 12 And Joshua rose early in the morning , and the priests took up the ark of the LORD .
6 : 15 And it came to pass on the seventh day , that they rose early about the dawning of the day , and compassed the city after the same manner seven times : only on that day they compassed the city seven times .
7 : 16 So Joshua rose up early in the morning , and brought Israel by their tribes ; and the tribe of Judah was taken : 7 : 17 And he brought the family of Judah ; and he took the family of the Zarhites : and he brought the family of the Zarhites man by man ; and Zabdi was taken : 7 : 18 And he brought his household man by man ; and Achan , the son of Carmi , the son of Zabdi , the son of Zerah , of the tribe of Judah , was taken .
8 : 10 And Joshua rose up early in the morning , and numbered the people , and went up , he and the elders of Israel , before the people to Ai .
8 : 14 And it came to pass , when the king of Ai saw it , that they hasted and rose up early , and the men of the city went out against Israel to battle , he and all his people , at a time appointed , before the plain ; but he wist not that there were liers in ambush against him behind the city .
6 : 21 Then the angel of the LORD put forth the end of the staff that was in his hand , and touched the flesh and the unleavened cakes ; and there rose up fire out of the rock , and consumed the flesh and the unleavened cakes .
6 : 38 And it was so : for he rose up early on the morrow , and thrust the fleece together , and wringed the dew out of the fleece , a bowl full of water .
7 : 1 Then Jerubbaal , who is Gideon , and all the people that were with him , rose up early , and pitched beside the well of Harod : so that the host of the Midianites were on the north side of them , by the hill of Moreh , in the valley .
9 : 34 And Abimelech rose up , and all the people that were with him , by night , and they laid wait against Shechem in four companies .
9 : 35 And Gaal the son of Ebed went out , and stood in the entering of the gate of the city : and Abimelech rose up , and the people that were with him , from lying in wait .
9 : 43 And he took the people , and divided them into three companies , and laid wait in the field , and looked , and , behold , the people were come forth out of the city ; and he rose up against them , and smote them .
19 : 5 And it came to pass on the fourth day , when they arose early in the morning , that he rose up to depart : and the damsel ' s father said unto his son in law , Comfort thine heart with a morsel of bread , and afterward go your way .
19 : 7 And when the man rose up to depart , his father in law urged him : therefore he lodged there again .
19 : 9 And when the man rose up to depart , he , and his concubine , and his servant , his father in law , the damsel ' s father , said unto him , Behold , now the day draweth toward evening , I pray you tarry all night : behold , the day groweth to an end , lodge here , that thine heart may be merry ; and to morrow get you early on your way , that thou mayest go home .
19 : 10 But the man would not tarry that night , but he rose up and departed , and came over against Jebus , which is Jerusalem ; and there were with him two asses saddled , his concubine also was with him .
19 : 27 And her lord rose up in the morning , and opened the doors of the house , and went out to go his way : and , behold , the woman his concubine was fallen down at the door of the house , and her hands were upon the threshold .
Then the man took her up upon an ass , and the man rose up , and gat him unto his place .
20 : 5 And the men of Gibeah rose against me , and beset the house round about upon me by night , and thought to have slain me : and my concubine have they forced , that she is dead .
20 : 19 And the children of Israel rose up in the morning , and encamped against Gibeah .
20 : 33 And all the men of Israel rose up out of their place , and put themselves in array at Baaltamar : and the liers in wait of Israel came forth out of their places , even out of the meadows of Gibeah .
21 : 4 And it came to pass on the morrow , that the people rose early , and built there an altar , and offered burnt offerings and peace offerings .
3 : 14 And she lay at his feet until the morning : and she rose up before one could know another .
1 : 9 So Hannah rose up after they had eaten in Shiloh , and after they had drunk .
1 : 19 And they rose up in the morning early , and worshipped before the LORD , and returned , and came to their house to Ramah : and Elkanah knew Hannah his wife ; and the LORD remembered her .
15 : 12 And when Samuel rose early to meet Saul in the morning , it was told Samuel , saying , Saul came to Carmel , and , behold , he set him up a place , and is gone about , and passed on , and gone down to Gilgal .
So Samuel rose up , and went to Ramah .
17 : 20 And David rose up early in the morning , and left the sheep with a keeper , and took , and went , as Jesse had commanded him ; and he came to the trench , as the host was going forth to the fight , and shouted for the battle .
But Saul rose up out of the cave , and went on his way .
Then they rose up , and went away that night .
29 : 11 So David and his men rose up early to depart in the morning , to return into the land of the Philistines .
15 : 2 And Absalom rose up early , and stood beside the way of the gate : and it was so , that when any man that had a controversy came to the king for judgment , then Absalom called unto him , and said , Of what city art thou ?
18 : 31 And , behold , Cushi came ; and Cushi said , Tidings , my lord the king : for the LORD hath avenged thee this day of all them that rose up against thee .
22 : 40 For thou hast girded me with strength to battle : them that rose up against me hast thou subdued under me .
22 : 49 And that bringeth me forth from mine enemies : thou also hast lifted me up on high above them that rose up against me : thou hast delivered me from the violent man .
1 : 49 And all the guests that were with Adonijah were afraid , and rose up , and went every man his way .
And the king rose up to meet her , and bowed himself unto her , and sat down on his throne , and caused a seat to be set for the king ' s mother ; and she sat on his right hand .
3 : 21 And when I rose in the morning to give my child suck , behold , it was dead : but when I had considered it in the morning , behold , it was not my son , which I did bear .
21 : 16 And it came to pass , when Ahab heard that Naboth was dead , that Ahab rose up to go down to the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite , to take possession of it .
3 : 22 And they rose up early in the morning , and the sun shone upon the water , and the Moabites saw the water on the other side as red as blood : 3 : 23 And they said , This is blood : the kings are surely slain , and they have smitten one another : now therefore , Moab , to the spoil .
3 : 24 And when they came to the camp of Israel , the Israelites rose up and smote the Moabites , so that they fled before them : but they went forward smiting the Moabites , even in their country .
7 : 5 And they rose up in the twilight , to go unto the camp of the Syrians : and when they were come to the uttermost part of the camp of Syria , behold , there was no man there .
8 : 21 So Joram went over to Zair , and all the chariots with him : and he rose by night , and smote the Edomites which compassed him about , and the captains of the chariots : and the people fled into their tents .
20 : 20 And they rose early in the morning , and went forth into the wilderness of Tekoa : and as they went forth , Jehoshaphat stood and said , Hear me , O Judah , and ye inhabitants of Jerusalem ; Believe in the LORD your God , so shall ye be established ; believe his prophets , so shall ye prosper .
21 : 9 Then Jehoram went forth with his princes , and all his chariots with him : and he rose up by night , and smote the Edomites which compassed him in , and the captains of the chariots .
26 : 19 Then Uzziah was wroth , and had a censer in his hand to burn incense : and while he was wroth with the priests , the leprosy even rose up in his forehead before the priests in the house of the LORD , from beside the incense altar .
28 : 15 And the men which were expressed by name rose up , and took the captives , and with the spoil clothed all that were naked among them , and arrayed them , and shod them , and gave them to eat and to drink , and anointed them , and carried all the feeble of them upon asses , and brought them to Jericho , the city of palm trees , to their brethren : then they returned to Samaria .
29 : 20 Then Hezekiah the king rose early , and gathered the rulers of the city , and went up to the house of the LORD .
1 : 5 Then rose up the chief of the fathers of Judah and Benjamin , and the priests , and the Levites , with all them whose spirit God had raised , to go up to build the house of the LORD which is in Jerusalem .
5 : 2 Then rose up Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel , and Jeshua the son of Jozadak , and began to build the house of God which is at Jerusalem : and with them were the prophets of God helping them .
10 : 6 Then Ezra rose up from before the house of God , and went into the chamber of Johanan the son of Eliashib : and when he came thither , he did eat no bread , nor drink water : for he mourned because of the transgression of them that had been carried away .
3 : 1 Then Eliashib the high priest rose up with his brethren the priests , and they builded the sheep gate ; they sanctified it , and set up the doors of it ; even unto the tower of Meah they sanctified it , unto the tower of Hananeel .
4 : 14 And I looked , and rose up , and said unto the nobles , and to the rulers , and to the rest of the people , Be not ye afraid of them : remember the LORD , which is great and terrible , and fight for your brethren , your sons , and your daughters , your wives , and your houses .
1 : 5 And it was so , when the days of their feasting were gone about , that Job sent and sanctified them , and rose up early in the morning , and offered burnt offerings according to the number of them all : for Job said , It may be that my sons have sinned , and cursed God in their hearts .
18 : 39 For thou hast girded me with strength unto the battle : thou hast subdued under me those that rose up against me .
124 : 2 If it had not been the LORD who was on our side , when men rose up against us :
2 : 1 I am the rose of Sharon , and the lily of the valleys .
5 : 5 I rose up to open to my beloved ; and my hands dropped with myrrh , and my fingers with sweet smelling myrrh , upon the handles of the lock .
35 : 1 The wilderness and the solitary place shall be glad for them ; and the desert shall rejoice , and blossom as the rose .
26 : 17 Then rose up certain of the elders of the land , and spake to all the assembly of the people , saying , 26 : 18 Micah the Morasthite prophesied in the days of Hezekiah king of Judah , and spake to all the people of Judah , saying , Thus saith the LORD of hosts ; Zion shall be plowed like a field , and Jerusalem shall become heaps , and the mountain of the house as the high places of a forest .
3 : 61 Thou hast heard their reproach , O LORD , and all their imaginations against me ; 3 : 62 The lips of those that rose up against me , and their device against me all the day .
3 : 24 Then Nebuchadnezzar the king was astonied , and rose up in haste , and spake , and said unto his counsellors , Did not we cast three men bound into the midst of the fire ?
8 : 27 And I Daniel fainted , and was sick certain days ; afterward I rose up , and did the king ' s business ; and I was astonished at the vision , but none understood it .
1 : 3 But Jonah rose up to flee unto Tarshish from the presence of the LORD , and went down to Joppa ; and he found a ship going to Tarshish : so he paid the fare thereof , and went down into it , to go with them unto Tarshish from the presence of the LORD .
4 : 7 But God prepared a worm when the morning rose the next day , and it smote the gourd that it withered .
3 : 7 I said , Surely thou wilt fear me , thou wilt receive instruction ; so their dwelling should not be cut off , howsoever I punished them : but they rose early , and corrupted all their doings .
10 : 50 And he , casting away his garment , rose , and came to Jesus .
4 : 28 And all they in the synagogue , when they heard these things , were filled with wrath , 4 : 29 And rose up , and thrust him out of the city , and led him unto the brow of the hill whereon their city was built , that they might cast him down headlong .
5 : 25 And immediately he rose up before them , and took up that whereon he lay , and departed to his own house , glorifying God .
5 : 28 And he left all , rose up , and followed him .
16 : 31 And he said unto him , If they hear not Moses and the prophets , neither will they be persuaded , though one rose from the dead .
22 : 45 And when he rose up from prayer , and was come to his disciples , he found them sleeping for sorrow , 22 : 46 And said unto them , Why sleep ye ?
24 : 33 And they rose up the same hour , and returned to Jerusalem , and found the eleven gathered together , and them that were with them , 24 : 34 Saying , The Lord is risen indeed , and hath appeared to Simon .
11 : 31 The Jews then which were with her in the house , and comforted her , when they saw Mary , that she rose up hastily and went out , followed her , saying , She goeth unto the grave to weep there .
5 : 17 Then the high priest rose up , and all they that were with him , ( which is the sect of the Sadducees ,) and were filled with indignation , 5 : 18 And laid their hands on the apostles , and put them in the common prison .
5 : 36 For before these days rose up Theudas , boasting himself to be somebody ; to whom a number of men , about four hundred , joined themselves : who was slain ; and all , as many as obeyed him , were scattered , and brought to nought .
5 : 37 After this man rose up Judas of Galilee in the days of the taxing , and drew away much people after him : he also perished ; and all , even as many as obeyed him , were dispersed .
10 : 39 And we are witnesses of all things which he did both in the land of the Jews , and in Jerusalem ; whom they slew and hanged on a tree : 10 : 40 Him God raised up the third day , and shewed him openly ; 10 : 41 Not to all the people , but unto witnesses chosen before God , even to us , who did eat and drink with him after he rose from the dead .
14 : 20 Howbeit , as the disciples stood round about him , he rose up , and came into the city : and the next day he departed with Barnabas to Derbe .
15 : 5 But there rose up certain of the sect of the Pharisees which believed , saying , That it was needful to circumcise them , and to command them to keep the law of Moses .
15 : 7 And when there had been much disputing , Peter rose up , and said unto them , Men and brethren , ye know how that a good while ago God made choice among us , that the Gentiles by my mouth should hear the word of the gospel , and believe .
16 : 22 And the multitude rose up together against them : and the magistrates rent off their clothes , and commanded to beat them .
26 : 30 And when he had thus spoken , the king rose up , and the governor , and Bernice , and they that sat with them : 26 : 31 And when they were gone aside , they talked between themselves , saying , This man doeth nothing worthy of death or of bonds .
14 : 9 For to this end Christ both died , and rose , and revived , that he might be Lord both of the dead and living .
10 : 7 Neither be ye idolaters , as were some of them ; as it is written , The people sat down to eat and drink , and rose up to play .
15 : 3 For I delivered unto you first of all that which I also received , how that Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures ; 15 : 4 And that he was buried , and that he rose again the third day according to the scriptures : 15 : 5 And that he was seen of Cephas , then of the twelve : 15 : 6 After that , he was seen of above five hundred brethren at once ; of whom the greater part remain unto this present , but some are fallen asleep .
15 : 12 Now if Christ be preached that he rose from the dead , how say some among you that there is no resurrection of the dead ?
5 : 14 For the love of Christ constraineth us ; because we thus judge , that if one died for all , then were all dead : 5 : 15 And that he died for all , that they which live should not henceforth live unto themselves , but unto him which died for them , and rose again .
4 : 14 For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again , even so them also which sleep in Jesus will God bring with him .
19 : 3 And again they said , Alleluia And her smoke rose up for ever and ever .
And so Tom awoke , and we rose in the dark , And got with our bags and our brushes to work .
THE SICK ROSE
O rose , thou art sick !
MY PRETTY ROSE TREE
A flower was offered to me , Such a flower as May never bore ; But I said " I ' ve a pretty rose tree ," And I passed the sweet flower o ' er .
Then I went to my pretty rose tree , To tend her by day and by night ; But my rose turned away with jealousy , And her thorns were my only delight .
The modest Rose puts forth a thorn , The humble sheep a threat ' ning horn : While the Lily white shall in love delight , Nor a thorn nor a threat stain her beauty bright .
The sexes sprang from shame and pride , Blown in the morn , in evening died ; But mercy changed death into sleep ; The sexes rose to work and weep .
One hot summer morning a little Cloud rose out of the sea and floated lightly and happily across the blue sky .
So one day , the little old woman made a boy out of gingerbread ; she made him a chocolate jacket , and put raisins on it for buttons ; his eyes were made of fine , fat currants ; his mouth was made of rose - coloured sugar ; and he had a gay little cap of orange sugar - candy .
So he blew , and he blew , a mighty blast , and the bubbles rose in a perfect whirlpool , fizzing and swirling .
Bright and early the next morning , he rose and went to his work bench .
Snow - white in the sun , with great wings beating and soaring , in hundreds and hundreds , they rose and circled and came on .
And he rose from the Emperor ' s heart and floated away through the window .
Then the two Ducks rose slowly in the air and flew away with their burden .
One lovely summer morning , just as the sun rose , two travellers started on a journey .
David rose early in the morning , and left the sheep with a keeper , and took the corn and the loaves and the cheeses , as his father had commanded him , and went to the camp of the Israelites .
He could only sit and brood , while his young heart swelled and a lump rose in his throat at the thought that he could do nothing .
A large rose - tree stood near the entrance of the garden : the roses growing on it were white , but there were three gardeners at it , busily painting them red .
Two began in a low voice , ' Why the fact is , you see , Miss , this here ought to have been a RED rose - tree , and we put a white one in by mistake ; and if the Queen was to find it out , we should all have our heads cut off , you know .
And then , turning to the rose - tree , she went on , ' What HAVE you been doing here ?'
At this the whole pack rose up into the air , and came flying down upon her : she gave a little scream , half of fright and half of anger , and tried to beat them off , and found herself lying on the bank , with her head in the lap of her sister , who was gently brushing away some dead leaves that had fluttered down from the trees upon her face .
As his head and shoulders rose above it they turned to flame in the full glow as if lit up by an immense firelight .
And MacIan rose to his feet with a vague excitement .
Almost at the same instant that the car plucked itself out of the mud and whipped away up the road , the man who had been flung into the ditch rose waveringly to his feet .
Round the rays of the victorious sun swept a sort of rainbow of confused and conquered colours -- brown and blue and green and flaming rose - colour ; as though gold were driving before it all the colours of the world .
Life , too , of the more moving sort rose at the sun on every side of them .
On all that luxurious crest of life the risen and victorious sun was beating , burnishing it all like gold , and every bird that rose with that sunrise caught a light like a star upon it like the dove of the Holy Spirit .
The smoke of Mr . Wilkinson ' s cigars went up ceaseless and strong smelling , like a pagan sacrifice ; the golden glories of Mr . Wilkinson ' s champagne rose to their heads and poured out of them in fancies and philosophies .
Purple and crimson rhododendrons rose arrogantly , like rampant heraldic animals against their burning background of laburnum gold .
Why does a rose have thorns ?
MacIan clambered into the silver boat , and it rose upward to the stars .
To say that it rose to the stars is no mere metaphor , for the sky had cleared to that occasional and astonishing transparency in which one can see plainly both stars and moon .
The masses of rose or rhododendron deepened from crimson to violet .
The higher and higher it rose the broader and broader became the scenes of flame and desolation underneath .
Turnbull rose to his feet in the car with considerable deliberation , but his face seemed oddly pale .
The unknown rose to his full height , and the expression in his eyes seemed to be made of ironies behind ironies , as two mirrors infinitely reflect each other .
But from a yet farther seat , partly concealed behind a dwarf tree golden with oranges , there rose and advanced towards the poet a person whose costume was the most aggressively opposite to his own .
It was an Italian head : fuzzy , swarthy and very vivacious , that rose abruptly out of the standing collar like cardboard and the comic pink tie .
At about the same instant the two priests in the corner rose ; the taller , a white - haired Italian , taking his leave .
And yet , however high they went , the desert still blossomed like the rose .
And indeed she rose out of the sea of colours so beautiful and happy a vision that the priest felt his suspicion shaken and shifted .
A shrewd observer might have remarked that the emotional temperature rather rose at so unemotional an interruption .
You also know that he is a remarkable character ; one of those that rose on stepping - stones --"
Usher smote the table and rose in a sort of angry triumph .
And yet my heart rose higher and higher like a child ' s kite , until I came over the loose , dry sand - hills and to the flat , wet sands , where Philip stood already up to his ankles in the shallow shining water , some hundred yards out to sea .
The girl looked at him , and then rose and put her gloves on .
He rose tottering to his feet , and struck back as such men do strike .
As he spoke a most beautiful rose - red light seemed to burst into blossom like a gigantic rose ; but accompanied with a crackling and rattling noise that was like the laughter of devils .
Flambeau , who had sat on the long iron seat to finish his sherry , put it down and rose to his feet , staring at his friend in amazement .
Father Brown threw away a daisy - chain he was making , and rose with a wistful look .
In Kidd rose from its depth all that acrid humour that is the strange salt of the seriousness of his race .
He had distinguished himself even , before his exploits at Sadowa and Gravelotte ; in fact , he rose from the ranks , which is very unusual even in the smallest of the German ..."
" Rose from the ranks !"
Gregory ' s big bull ' s eyes blinked suddenly like those of an angry lion , and one could almost fancy that his red mane rose .
He stared and talked at the girl ' s red hair and amused face for what seemed to be a few minutes ; and then , feeling that the groups in such a place should mix , rose to his feet .
Syme rose slowly to his feet and thrust his long , white hands into his long , grey trousers ' pockets .
When Gregory heard the dangerous dialogue end , with a sudden safety for his rival , he rose abruptly and paced the floor in painful thought .
Then a large old man , with a long and venerable white beard , perhaps the only real working - man present , rose lumberingly and said --
Gregory rose amid a great rumble of applause .
The silence was sudden and awkward , but the chairman rose like an automaton , and said in a colourless voice --
The roar rose like the sea , the hands rose like a forest , and three minutes afterwards Mr . Gabriel Syme , of the Secret Police Service , was elected to the post of Thursday on the General Council of the Anarchists of Europe .
When he rose or sat down , which was with long labour and peril , something worse was expressed than mere weakness , something indefinably connected with the horror of the whole scene .
Syme half rose from his seat , his finger firm on the trigger .
The red - haired detective who had masqueraded as Gogol rose to his feet without a word , and walked out of the room with an air of perfect nonchalance .
At last he rose and made his way out of the hotel into Leicester Square .
But right up against these dreary colours rose the black bulk of the cathedral ; and upon the top of the cathedral was a random splash and great stain of snow , still clinging as to an Alpine peak .
Then he rose to his feet erect , like an insulted man , and thrust the chair away from him .
He looked up and smiled brightly enough as the men came in , and rose with the resilient rapidity of which the Professor had spoken .
Then Dr . Bull rose slowly , still smiling , and took off his spectacles .
His spirits were already unnaturally high ; they rose as the Saumur sank , and in half an hour his talk was a torrent of nonsense .
They were ( as he said of his impulse about the spectacles ) poetic intuitions , and they sometimes rose to the exaltation of prophecy .
His thoughts rose higher and higher with the rising roar of the train , which ended , as if proudly , in a long and piercing whistle .
And Ratcliffe sat down comfortably in the car and lit a cigarette , but the others rose excitedly and stared down the road .
" They are really destroyed now ," said the man with a cigarette , and rose with his hands in his pockets .
But above all these matters of detail which could be explained , rose the central mountain of the matter that they could not explain .
roared the President , and he rose slowly to an incredible height , like some enormous wave about to arch above them and break .
As each of them sat down a roar of enthusiasm rose from the carnival , such as that with which crowds receive kings .
Dawn was breaking over everything in colours at once clear and timid ; as if Nature made a first attempt at yellow and a first attempt at rose .
" Never had so good a little boy about the grounds ," said the gardener ; " he ' s always at his work , let me come by when I will , and he has got twice as much done as another would do ; yes , twice as much , ma ' am ; for look here -- he began at this ' ere rose - bush , and now he ' s got to where you stand , ma ' am ; and here is the day ' s work that t ' other boy , and he ' s three years older too , did to - day -- I say , measure Jem ' s fairly , and it ' s twice as much , I ' m sure ."
Rose , who was her particular friend , now came forward to assure the impatient assembly , " that she would answer for it Susan would come as soon as she possibly could , and that she probably was detained by business at home ."
The little electors thought that all business should give way to theirs , and Rose was dispatched to summon her friend immediately .
Susan was all this time , as her friend Rose rightly guessed , busy at home .
At the door of her father ' s cottage she saw her friend Rose , who was just come to summon her to the hawthorn bush .
We can do nothing without YOU , dear Susan ," cried Rose , running to meet her , at the moment she saw her .
When Rose , however , learnt that her friend ' s guinea - hen was detained prisoner by the attorney ' s daughter , she exclaimed , with all the honest warmth of indignation , and instantly ran back to tell the story to her companions .
The rushlight , which stood beside the bed , was now burnt low ; the long shadow of the tall wicker chair flitted , faded , appeared , and vanished , as the flame rose and sunk in the socket .
All was silent : the grey light of the morning was now spreading over every object ; the sun rose slowly , and Susan stood at the lattice window , looking through the small leaded , cross - barred panes at the splendid spectacle .
cried Rose , pressing forward ; but Susan put her finger upon her lips , and pointed to her mother ' s window .
" Will you , dear Rose ?"
Susan was mending her father ' s linen , when Rose tapped softly at the window , and beckoned to her to come out .
said Rose .
Rose hurried away , pleased with her commission , and to accomplish her business .
Rose insisted upon seeing Miss Barbara herself , and she was shown into a parlour to the young lady , who was reading a dirty novel , which she put under a heap of law papers as they entered .
said she to her maid ; but as soon as she saw Rose behind the maid , she put on a scornful air .
May every ambassador -- every ambassador in as good a cause -- answer with as much dignity and moderation as Rose replied to Barbara upon the present occasion .
The attorney ' s daughter had , whilst Rose opened her negotiation , measured the depth of her purse with a keen eye ; and her penetration discovered that it contained at least ten shillings .
Rose , who was of a warm temper , not quite so fit a match as she had thought herself for the wily Barbara , incautiously exclaimed , " Whatever it costs us , we are determined to have Susan ' s favourite hen ; so , if one shilling won ' t do , take two ; and if two won ' t do , why , take three ."
Rose went on rapidly , bidding shilling after shilling , till she had completely emptied her purse .
Rose pushed the money towards her ; but just then , recollecting that she was acting for others more than for herself , and doubting whether she had full powers to conclude such an extravagant bargain , she gathered up the public treasure , and with newly - recovered prudence observed that she must go back to consult her friends .
They would not wait for one word of thanks , but ran away , leaving only Rose with her to settle the treaty for the guinea - hen .
" Well ," said Rose , " shall I go back for the guinea - hen ?"
She told her mind to Rose , and concluded by saying , decidedly , that " if the money was given to her to dispose of as she pleased , she would give it to her father ."
" It is all yours , my dear , good Susan ," cried Rose , with a look of warm approbation .
She put on her usual straw hat , and accompanied Rose ' s mother , who was going with a basket of cleared muslin to the Abbey .
The shopkeeper , who was father to Susan ' s friend Rose , looked much satisfied by this speech , and as if a compliment had been paid to himself , bowed low to Miss Somers , and then with alertness , which a London linen - draper might have admired , produced piece after piece of his best goods to his young customer -- unrolled , unfolded , held the bright stuffs and calendered calicoes in various lights .
" No later back , ma ' am , than last May morning ," said he , " as my daughter Rose was telling us , Susan did a turn , in her quiet way , by her mother , that would not displease you if you were to hear it .
She put the crown upon my daughter Rose ' s head with her own hands ; and , to be sure , Rose loves her as well as if she was her own sister .
As soon as the attorney was out of sight , Susan rose from the bank where she was seated , came up to her lamb , and stooped to gather some of the fresh dewy trefoil , to let it eat out of her hand for the last time .
Rose , her good friend , was with her , and she had before her the pleasure of telling her father of his week ' s reprieve .
and , without waiting for permission , he spoke out , and gave a full , true , and warm account of Rose ' s embassy , and of Miss Barbara ' s cruel and avaricious proceedings .
He recollected Rose and her generous friendship for Susan .
exclaimed Rose --" It ' s Daisy !"
The obliging shopkeeper , who showed the pretty calicoes to Susan , was now at his door , and when he saw the lamb , and heard that it was Susan ' s , and learned its history , he said that he would add his mite ; and he gave the children some ends of narrow riband , with which Rose decorated her friend ' s lamb .
They had closed round Daisy , so that she did not see it ; but as they came up to the garden gate she saw that Rose beckoned to her .
" I am glad she saw the guinea - hen ," cried Rose , who now held it in her hands .
He stayed , first , to inform Susan that it was Rose who tied the ribands on Daisy ' s head .
Rose held the sieve , and Susan was feeding her long lost favourite , whilst Philip leaned over the wicket , prolonging his narration .
" Sir ," said Susan , after consulting her mother ' s eyes , " there is , to be sure , a favour I should like to ask ; it is for Rose ."
" Well , I don ' t know who Rose is ," said Sir Arthur , smiling ; " but , go on ."
Tell Rose to come to the Abbey , to - morrow morning , or , rather , come with her yourself ; for our housekeeper , I know , wants to talk to you about a certain cake .
" Rose ran away with it , mother , but I ' ll step after her , and bring it back to you this minute ," said Susan .
Susan found her friend Rose at the hawthorn , in the midst of a crowded circle of her companions , to whom she was reading " Susan ' s Lamentation for her Lamb ."
" Mr . Ripley , rose - colour ; helmet .
At this contemptuous sarcasm upon her sex , Sophy ' s colour rose .
cried Frederick , pointing to the colour which rose in her cheeks almost to her temples --" rising !
They looked up , and beheld the rose of a watering - engine , whose long neck appeared through a trap door in the ceiling .
Archer , who had spent the night as a man who had the cares of government upon his shoulders , rose early in the morning , whilst everybody else was fast asleep .
As soon as the daylight appeared , Archer rose softly , that he might RECONNOITRE , and devise some method of guarding against this new danger .
Archer laid down a guinea of his own money for his subscription ; at which sight all the company clapped their hands , and his popularity rose to a high pitch with their renewed hopes of plenty .
They rose with fresh cheerfulness in the morning , eager to pursue their various occupations .
Cecilia rose hastily .
Cecilia , however , was equally sure that she could do it much better ; and a dispute would have inevitably ensued , if Cecilia , recollecting herself just as her colour rose to scarlet , had not yielded -- yielded , with no very good grace indeed , but as well as could be expected for the first time .
But as soon as the formentation of her spirits subsided , the sense of shame , which had been scarcely felt when mixed with so many other sensations , rose uppermost in her mind .
They knelt down to prayers , and the moment they rose , Mr . William Power , laying his hand upon the table , cried , " Stand still , gentlemen , if you please ."
Father Mapple rose , and in a mild voice of unassuming authority ordered the scattered people to condense .
On one side , New Bedford rose in terraces of streets , their ice - covered trees all glittering in the clear , cold air .
A few minutes more , and he rose again , one arm still striking out , and with the other dragging a lifeless form .
At last we rose and dressed ; and Queequeg , taking a prodigiously hearty breakfast of chowders of all sorts , so that the landlady should not make much profit by reason of his Ramadan , we sallied out to board the Pequod , sauntering along , and picking our teeth with halibut bones .
The warmly cool , clear , ringing , perfumed , overflowing , redundant days , were as crystal goblets of Persian sherbet , heaped up -- flaked up , with rose - water snow .
Those tiger yellow creatures of his seemed all steel and whalebone ; like five trip - hammers they rose and fell with regular strokes of strength , which periodically started the boat along the water like a horizontal burst boiler out of a Mississippi steamer .
But , at last , when turning to the eastward , the Cape winds began howling around us , and we rose and fell upon the long , troubled seas that are there ; when the ivory - tusked Pequod sharply bowed to the blast , and gored the dark waves in her madness , till , like showers of silver chips , the foam - flakes flew over her bulwarks ; then all this desolate vacuity of life went away , but gave place to sights more dismal than before .
" Steelkilt rose , and slowly retreating round the windlass , steadily followed by the mate with his menacing hammer , deliberately repeated his intention not to obey .
"' Then I must get some from old Rad ;' and he rose to go aft .
But , at some distance , Moby Dick rose again , with some tatters of Radney ' s red woollen shirt , caught in the teeth that had destroyed him .
In the distance , a great white mass lazily rose , and rising higher and higher , and disentangling itself from the azure , at last gleamed before our prow like a snow - slide , new slid from the hills .
in the same spot where it sank , once more it slowly rose .
After the full interval of his sounding had elapsed , the whale rose again , and being now in advance of the smoker ' s boat , and much nearer to it than to any of the others , Stubb counted upon the honour of the capture .
a broad white shadow rose from the sea ; by its quick , fanning motion , temporarily taking the breath out of the bodies of the oarsmen .
And they stuck to it till they did gain it ; when instantly , a swift tremor was felt running like lightning along the keel , as the strained line , scraping beneath the ship , suddenly rose to view under her bows , snapping and quivering ; and so flinging off its drippings , that the drops fell like bits of broken glass on the water , while the whale beyond also rose to sight , and once more the boats were free to fly .
cried one , to a great dromedary that of a sudden rose bodily to the surface , and for an instant threatened to swamp us .
The Pequod Meets The Rose - Bud .
Yet are there those who will still do it ; notwithstanding the fact that the oil obtained from such subjects is of a very inferior quality , and by no means of the nature of attar - of - rose .
Upon her head boards , in large gilt letters , he read " Bouton de Rose ,"-- Rose - button , or Rose - bud ; and this was the romantic name of this aromatic ship .
Though Stubb did not understand the BOUTON part of the inscription , yet the word ROSE , and the bulbous figure - head put together , sufficiently explained the whole to him .
" A wooden rose - bud , eh ?"
Arrived then at this spot , with one hand still to his nose , he bawled --" Bouton - de - Rose , ahoy !
" Well , then , my Bouton - de - Rose - bud , have you seen the White Whale ?"
Air rather gardenny , I should say ; throw us a bunch of posies , will ye , Bouton - de - Rose ?"
But joking aside , though ; do you know , Rose - bud , that it ' s all nonsense trying to get any oil out of such whales ?
But hereupon a fierce contest rose among them , concerning feet and inches ; they cracked each other ' s sconces with their yard - sticks -- the great skull echoed -- and seizing that lucky chance , I quickly concluded my own admeasurements .
But , mastering his emotion , he half calmly rose , and as he quitted the cabin , paused for an instant and said : " Thou hast outraged , not insulted me , sir ; but for that I ask thee not to beware of Starbuck ; thou wouldst but laugh ; but let Ahab beware of Ahab ; beware of thyself , old man ."
Unobserved he rose and glided away ; while , awestruck by the aspect of their commander , the seamen clustered together on the forecastle , till Ahab , troubledly pacing the deck , shouted out --" To the braces !
The life - buoy -- a long slender cask -- was dropped from the stern , where it always hung obedient to a cunning spring ; but no hand rose to seize it , and the sun having long beat upon this cask it had shrunken , so that it slowly filled , and that parched wood also filled at its every pore ; and the studded iron - bound cask followed the sailor to the bottom , as if to yield him his pillow , though in sooth but a hard one .
But soon the fore part of him slowly rose from the water ; for an instant his whole marbleized body formed a high arch , like Virginia ' s Natural Bridge , and warningly waving his bannered flukes in the air , the grand god revealed himself , sounded , and went out of sight .
But suddenly as he peered down and down into its depths , he profoundly saw a white living spot no bigger than a white weasel , with wonderful celerity uprising , and magnifying as it rose , till it turned , and then there were plainly revealed two long crooked rows of white , glistening teeth , floating up from the undiscoverable bottom .
Ripplingly withdrawing from his prey , Moby Dick now lay at a little distance , vertically thrusting his oblong white head up and down in the billows ; and at the same time slowly revolving his whole spindled body ; so that when his vast wrinkled forehead rose -- some twenty or more feet out of the water -- the now rising swells , with all their confluent waves , dazzlingly broke against it ; vindictively tossing their shivered spray still higher into the air .
Of Man ' s first disobedience , and the fruit Of that forbidden tree whose mortal taste Brought death into the World , and all our woe , With loss of Eden , till one greater Man Restore us , and regain the blissful seat , Sing , Heavenly Muse , that , on the secret top Of Oreb , or of Sinai , didst inspire That shepherd who first taught the chosen seed In the beginning how the heavens and earth Rose out of Chaos : or , if Sion hill Delight thee more , and Siloa ' s brook that flowed Fast by the oracle of God , I thence Invoke thy aid to my adventurous song , That with no middle flight intends to soar Above th ' Aonian mount , while it pursues Things unattempted yet in prose or rhyme .
All in a moment through the gloom were seen Ten thousand banners rise into the air , With orient colours waving : with them rose A forest huge of spears ; and thronging helms Appeared , and serried shields in thick array Of depth immeasurable .
Anon out of the earth a fabric huge Rose like an exhalation , with the sound Of dulcet symphonies and voices sweet -- Built like a temple , where pilasters round Were set , and Doric pillars overlaid With golden architrave ; nor did there want Cornice or frieze , with bossy sculptures graven ; The roof was fretted gold .
On th ' other side up rose Belial , in act more graceful and humane .
Which when Beelzebub perceived -- than whom , Satan except , none higher sat -- with grave Aspect he rose , and in his rising seemed A pillar of state .
Thus saying , rose The Monarch , and prevented all reply ; Prudent lest , from his resolution raised , Others among the chief might offer now , Certain to be refused , what erst they feared , And , so refused , might in opinion stand His rivals , winning cheap the high repute Which he through hazard huge must earn .
But they Dreaded not more th ' adventure than his voice Forbidding ; and at once with him they rose .
Thus with the year Seasons return ; but not to me returns Day , or the sweet approach of even or morn , Or sight of vernal bloom , or summer ' s rose , Or flocks , or herds , or human face divine ; But cloud instead , and ever - during dark Surrounds me , from the cheerful ways of men Cut off , and for the book of knowledge fair Presented with a universal blank Of nature ' s works to me expung ' d and ras ' d , And wisdom at one entrance quite shut out .
Beneath him with new wonder now he views , To all delight of human sense exposed , In narrow room , Nature ' s whole wealth , yea more , A Heaven on Earth : For blissful Paradise Of God the garden was , by him in the east Of Eden planted ; Eden stretched her line From Auran eastward to the royal towers Of great Seleucia , built by Grecian kings , Of where the sons of Eden long before Dwelt in Telassar : In this pleasant soil His far more pleasant garden God ordained ; Out of the fertile ground he caused to grow All trees of noblest kind for sight , smell , taste ; And all amid them stood the tree of life , High eminent , blooming ambrosial fruit Of vegetable gold ; and next to life , Our death , the tree of knowledge , grew fast by , Knowledge of good bought dear by knowing ill . Southward through Eden went a river large , Nor changed his course , but through the shaggy hill Passed underneath ingulfed ; for God had thrown That mountain as his garden - mould high raised Upon the rapid current , which , through veins Of porous earth with kindly thirst up - drawn , Rose a fresh fountain , and with many a rill Watered the garden ; thence united fell Down the steep glade , and met the nether flood , Which from his darksome passage now appears , And now , divided into four main streams , Runs diverse , wandering many a famous realm And country , whereof here needs no account ; But rather to tell how , if Art could tell , How from that sapphire fount the crisped brooks , Rolling on orient pearl and sands of gold , With mazy errour under pendant shades Ran nectar , visiting each plant , and fed Flowers worthy of Paradise , which not nice Art In beds and curious knots , but Nature boon Poured forth profuse on hill , and dale , and plain , Both where the morning sun first warmly smote The open field , and where the unpierced shade Imbrowned the noontide bowers : Thus was this place A happy rural seat of various view ; Groves whose rich trees wept odorous gums and balm , Others whose fruit , burnished with golden rind , Hung amiable , Hesperian fables true , If true , here only , and of delicious taste : Betwixt them lawns , or level downs , and flocks Grazing the tender herb , were interposed , Or palmy hillock ; or the flowery lap Of some irriguous valley spread her store , Flowers of all hue , and without thorn the rose : Another side , umbrageous grots and caves Of cool recess , o ' er which the mantling vine Lays forth her purple grape , and gently creeps Luxuriant ; mean while murmuring waters fall Down the slope hills , dispersed , or in a lake , That to the fringed bank with myrtle crowned Her crystal mirrour holds , unite their streams .
About them frisking played All beasts of the earth , since wild , and of all chase In wood or wilderness , forest or den ; Sporting the lion ramped , and in his paw Dandled the kid ; bears , tigers , ounces , pards , Gambolled before them ; the unwieldy elephant , To make them mirth , used all his might , and wreathed His ? kithetmroboscis ; close the serpent sly , Insinuating , wove with Gordian twine His braided train , and of his fatal guile Gave proof unheeded ; others on the grass Couched , and now filled with pasture gazing sat , Or bedward ruminating ; for the sun , Declined , was hasting now with prone career To the ocean isles , and in the ascending scale Of Heaven the stars that usher evening rose : When Satan still in gaze , as first he stood , Scarce thus at length failed speech recovered sad .
So saying , his proud step he scornful turned , But with sly circumspection , and began Through wood , through waste , o ' er hill , o ' er dale , his roam Mean while in utmost longitude , where Heaven With earth and ocean meets , the setting sun Slowly descended , and with right aspect Against the eastern gate of Paradise Levelled his evening rays : It was a rock Of alabaster , piled up to the clouds , Conspicuous far , winding with one ascent Accessible from earth , one entrance high ; The rest was craggy cliff , that overhung Still as it rose , impossible to climb .
I rose as at thy call , but found thee not ; To find thee I directed then my walk ; And on , methought , alone I passed through ways That brought me on a sudden to the tree Of interdicted knowledge : fair it seemed , Much fairer to my fancy than by day : And , as I wondering looked , beside it stood One shaped and winged like one of those from Heaven By us oft seen ; his dewy locks distilled Ambrosia ; on that tree he also gazed ; And ' O fair plant ,' said he , ' with fruit surcharged , ' Deigns none to ease thy load , and taste thy sweet , ' Nor God , nor Man ?
So saying , with dispatchful looks in haste She turns , on hospitable thoughts intent What choice to choose for delicacy best , What order , so contrived as not to mix Tastes , not well joined , inelegant , but bring Taste after taste upheld with kindliest change ; Bestirs her then , and from each tender stalk Whatever Earth , all - bearing mother , yields In India East or West , or middle shore In Pontus or the Punick coast , or where Alcinous reigned , fruit of all kinds , in coat Rough , or smooth rind , or bearded husk , or shell , She gathers , tribute large , and on the board Heaps with unsparing hand ; for drink the grape She crushes , inoffensive must , and meaths From many a berry , and from sweet kernels pressed She tempers dulcet creams ; nor these to hold Wants her fit vessels pure ; then strows the ground With rose and odours from the shrub unfumed .
Now storming fury rose , And clamour such as heard in Heaven till now Was never ; arms on armour clashing brayed Horrible discord , and the madding wheels Of brazen chariots raged ; dire was the noise Of conflict ; over head the dismal hiss Of fiery darts in flaming vollies flew , And flying vaulted either host with fire .
Now when fair morn orient in Heaven appeared , Up rose the victor - Angels , and to arms The matin trumpet sung : In arms they stood Of golden panoply , refulgent host , Soon banded ; others from the dawning hills Look round , and scouts each coast light - armed scour , Each quarter to descry the distant foe , Where lodged , or whither fled , or if for fight , In motion or in halt : Him soon they met Under spread ensigns moving nigh , in slow But firm battalion ; back with speediest sail Zophiel , of Cherubim the swiftest wing , Came flying , and in mid air aloud thus cried .
war seemed a civil game To this uproar ; horrid confusion heaped Upon confusion rose : And now all Heaven Had gone to wrack , with ruin overspread ; Had not the Almighty Father , where he sits Shrined in his sanctuary of Heaven secure , Consulting on the sum of things , foreseen This tumult , and permitted all , advised : That his great purpose he might so fulfil , To honour his anointed Son avenged Upon his enemies , and to declare All power on him transferred : Whence to his Son , The Assessour of his throne , he thus began .
So said , he , o ' er his scepter bowing , rose From the right hand of Glory where he sat ; And the third sacred morn began to shine , Dawning through Heaven .
He scarce had said , when the bare Earth , till then Desart and bare , unsightly , unadorned , Brought forth the tender grass , whose verdure clad Her universal face with pleasant green ; Then herbs of every leaf , that sudden flowered Opening their various colours , and made gay Her bosom , smelling sweet : and , these scarce blown , Forth flourished thick the clustering vine , forth crept The swelling gourd , up stood the corny reed Embattled in her field , and the humble shrub , And bush with frizzled hair implicit : Last Rose , as in dance , the stately trees , and spread Their branches hung with copious fruit , or gemmed Their blossoms : With high woods the hills were crowned ; With tufts the valleys , and each fountain side ; With borders long the rivers : that Earth now Seemed like to Heaven , a seat where Gods might dwell , Or wander with delight , and love to haunt Her sacred shades : though God had yet not rained Upon the Earth , and man to till the ground None was ; but from the Earth a dewy mist Went up , and watered all the ground , and each Plant of the field ; which , ere it was in the Earth , God made , and every herb , before it grew On the green stem : God saw that it was good : So even and morn recorded the third day .
Hither , as to their fountain , other stars Repairing , in their golden urns draw light , And hence the morning - planet gilds her horns ; By tincture or reflection they augment Their small peculiar , though from human sight So far remote , with diminution seen , First in his east the glorious lamp was seen , Regent of day , and all the horizon round Invested with bright rays , jocund to run His longitude through Heaven ' s high road ; the gray Dawn , and the Pleiades , before him danced , Shedding sweet influence : Less bright the moon , But opposite in levelled west was set , His mirrour , with full face borrowing her light From him ; for other light she needed none In that aspect , and still that distance keeps Till night ; then in the east her turn she shines , Revolved on Heaven ' s great axle , and her reign With thousand lesser lights dividual holds , With thousand thousand stars , that then appeared Spangling the hemisphere : Then first adorned With their bright luminaries that set and rose , Glad evening and glad morn crowned the fourth day .
The Earth obeyed , and straight Opening her fertile womb teemed at a birth Innumerous living creatures , perfect forms , Limbed and full grown : Out of the ground up rose , As from his lair , the wild beast where he wons In forest wild , in thicket , brake , or den ; Among the trees in pairs they rose , they walked : The cattle in the fields and meadows green : Those rare and solitary , these in flocks Pasturing at once , and in broad herds upsprung .
The grassy clods now calved ; now half appeared The tawny lion , pawing to get free His hinder parts , then springs as broke from bonds , And rampant shakes his brinded mane ; the ounce , The libbard , and the tiger , as the mole Rising , the crumbled earth above them threw In hillocks : The swift stag from under ground Bore up his branching head : Scarce from his mould Behemoth biggest born of earth upheaved His vastness : Fleeced the flocks and bleating rose , As plants : Ambiguous between sea and land The river - horse , and scaly crocodile .
So spake our sire , and by his countenance seemed Entering on studious thoughts abstruse ; which Eve Perceiving , where she sat retired in sight , With lowliness majestick from her seat , And grace that won who saw to wish her stay , Rose , and went forth among her fruits and flowers , To visit how they prospered , bud and bloom , Her nursery ; they at her coming sprung , And , touched by her fair tendance , gladlier grew .
To the nuptial bower I led her blushing like the morn : All Heaven , And happy constellations , on that hour Shed their selectest influence ; the Earth Gave sign of gratulation , and each hill ; Joyous the birds ; fresh gales and gentle airs Whispered it to the woods , and from their wings Flung rose , flung odours from the spicy shrub , Disporting , till the amorous bird of night Sung spousal , and bid haste the evening - star On his hill top , to light the bridal lamp .
There was a place , Now not , though sin , not time , first wrought the change , Where Tigris , at the foot of Paradise , Into a gulf shot under ground , till part Rose up a fountain by the tree of life : In with the river sunk , and with it rose Satan , involved in rising mist ; then sought Where to lie hid ; sea he had searched , and land , From Eden over Pontus and the pool Maeotis , up beyond the river Ob ; Downward as far antarctick ; and in length , West from Orontes to the ocean barred At Darien ; thence to the land where flows Ganges and Indus : Thus the orb he roamed With narrow search ; and with inspection deep Considered every creature , which of all Most opportune might serve his wiles ; and found The Serpent subtlest beast of all the field .
There they their fill of love and love ' s disport Took largely , of their mutual guilt the seal , The solace of their sin ; till dewy sleep Oppressed them , wearied with their amorous play , Soon as the force of that fallacious fruit , That with exhilarating vapour bland About their spirits had played , and inmost powers Made err , was now exhaled ; and grosser sleep , Bred of unkindly fumes , with conscious dreams Incumbered , now had left them ; up they rose As from unrest ; and , each the other viewing , Soon found their eyes how opened , and their minds How darkened ; innocence , that as a veil Had shadowed them from knowing ill , was gone ; Just confidence , and native righteousness , And honour , from about them , naked left To guilty Shame ; he covered , but his robe Uncovered more .
So rose the Danite strong , Herculean Samson , from the harlot - lap Of Philistean Dalilah , and waked Shorn of his strength .
Thus saying , from his radiant seat he rose Of high collateral glory : Him Thrones , and Powers , Princedoms , and Dominations ministrant , Accompanied to Heaven - gate ; from whence Eden , and all the coast , in prospect lay .
Satan , in likeness of an Angel bright , Betwixt the Centaur and the Scorpion steering His zenith , while the sun in Aries rose : Disguised he came ; but those his children dear Their parent soon discerned , though in disguise .
Mean while the south - wind rose , and , with black wings Wide - hovering , all the clouds together drove From under Heaven ; the hills to their supply Vapour , and exhalation dusk and moist , Sent up amain ; and now the thickened sky Like a dark cieling stood ; down rushed the rain Impetuous ; and continued , till the earth No more was seen : the floating vessel swum Uplifted , and secure with beaked prow Rode tilting o ' er the waves ; all dwellings else Flood overwhelmed , and them with all their pomp Deep under water rolled ; sea covered sea , Sea without shore ; and in their palaces , Where luxury late reigned , sea - monsters whelped And stabled ; of mankind , so numerous late , All left , in one small bottom swum imbarked .
If then , that Friend demand , why Brutus rose against Caesar , this is my answer : Not that I lou ' d Caesar lesse , but that I lou ' d Rome more .
The Courtiers , Soldiers , Schollers : Eye , tongue , sword , Th ' expectansie and Rose of the faire State , The glasse of Fashion , and the mould of Forme , Th ' obseru ' d of all Obseruers , quite , quite downe .
Such an Act That blurres the grace and blush of Modestie , Cals Vertue Hypocrite , takes off the Rose From the faire forehead of an innocent loue , And makes a blister there .
Then vp he rose , & don ' d his clothes , & dupt the chamber dore , Let in the Maid , that out a Maid , neuer departed more
Oh Rose of May , Deere Maid , kinde Sister , sweet Ophelia : Oh Heauens , is ' t possible , a yong Maids wits , Should be as mortall as an old mans life ?
When I heard at the close of the day how my name had been receiv ' d with plaudits in the capitol , still it was not a happy night for me that follow ' d , And else when I carous ' d , or when my plans were accomplish ' d , still I was not happy , But the day when I rose at dawn from the bed of perfect health , refresh ' d , singing , inhaling the ripe breath of autumn , When I saw the full moon in the west grow pale and disappear in the morning light , When I wander ' d alone over the beach , and undressing bathed , laughing with the cool waters , and saw the sun rise , And when I thought how my dear friend my lover was on his way coming , O then I was happy , O then each breath tasted sweeter , and all that day my food nourish ' d me more , and the beautiful day pass ' d well , And the next came with equal joy , and with the next at evening came my friend , And that night while all was still I heard the waters roll slowly continually up the shores , I heard the hissing rustle of the liquid and sands as directed to me whispering to congratulate me , For the one I love most lay sleeping by me under the same cover in the cool night , In the stillness in the autumn moonbeams his face was inclined toward me , And his arm lay lightly around my breast -- and that night I was happy .
Then to a loftier strain , Still prouder , more ecstatic rose the chant , As if the heirs , the deities of the West , Joining with master - tongue bore part .
Low hangs the moon , it rose late , It is lagging -- O I think it is heavy with love , with love .
To get betimes in Boston town I rose this morning early , Here ' s a good place at the corner , I must stand and see the show .
Vigil strange I kept on the field one night ; When you my son and my comrade dropt at my side that day , One look I but gave which your dear eyes return ' d with a look I shall never forget , One touch of your hand to mine O boy , reach ' d up as you lay on the ground , Then onward I sped in the battle , the even - contested battle , Till late in the night reliev ' d to the place at last again I made my way , Found you in death so cold dear comrade , found your body son of responding kisses , ( never again on earth responding ,) Bared your face in the starlight , curious the scene , cool blew the moderate night - wind , Long there and then in vigil I stood , dimly around me the battlefield spreading , Vigil wondrous and vigil sweet there in the fragrant silent night , But not a tear fell , not even a long - drawn sigh , long , long I gazed , Then on the earth partially reclining sat by your side leaning my chin in my hands , Passing sweet hours , immortal and mystic hours with you dearest comrade -- not a tear , not a word , Vigil of silence , love and death , vigil for you my son and my soldier , As onward silently stars aloft , eastward new ones upward stole , Vigil final for you brave boy , ( I could not save you , swift was your death , I faithfully loved you and cared for you living , I think we shall surely meet again ,) Till at latest lingering of the night , indeed just as the dawn appear ' d , My comrade I wrapt in his blanket , envelop ' d well his form , Folded the blanket well , tucking it carefully over head and carefully under feet , And there and then and bathed by the rising sun , my son in his grave , in his rude - dug grave I deposited , Ending my vigil strange with that , vigil of night and battle - field dim , Vigil for boy of responding kisses , ( never again on earth responding ,) Vigil for comrade swiftly slain , vigil I never forget , how as day brighten ' d , I rose from the chill ground and folded my soldier well in his blanket , And buried him where he fell .
} Over the Carnage Rose Prophetic a Voice
Over the carnage rose prophetic a voice , Be not dishearten ' d , affection shall solve the problems of freedom yet , Those who love each other shall become invincible , They shall yet make Columbia victorious .
1 Rang the refrain along the hall , the prison , Rose to the roof , the vaults of heaven above , Pouring in floods of melody in tones so pensive sweet and strong the like whereof was never heard , Reaching the far - off sentry and the armed guards , who ceas ' d their pacing , Making the hearer ' s pulses stop for ecstasy and awe .
To think that the sun rose in the east -- that men and women were flexible , real , alive -- that every thing was alive , To think that you and I did not see , feel , think , nor bear our part , To think that we are now here and bear our part .
To prepare for sleep , for bed , to look on my rose - color ' d flesh !
As the Greek ' s signal flame , by antique records told , Rose from the hill - top , like applause and glory , Welcoming in fame some special veteran , hero , With rosy tinge reddening the land he ' d served , So I aloft from Mannahatta ' s ship - fringed shore , Lift high a kindled brand for thee , Old Poet .
Somehow I cannot let it go yet , funeral though it is , Let it remain back there on its nail suspended , With pink , blue , yellow , all blanch ' d , and the white now gray and ashy , One wither ' d rose put years ago for thee , dear friend ; But I do not forget thee .
Put the scalp - knife carefully in his belt -- then lying down , resting moment , Rose again , half sitting , smiled , gave in silence his extended hand to each and all , Sank faintly low to the floor ( tightly grasping the tomahawk handle ,) Fix ' d his look on wife and little children -- the last :
For his o ' erarching and last lesson the greybeard sufi , In the fresh scent of the morning in the open air , On the slope of a teeming Persian rose - garden , Under an ancient chestnut - tree wide spreading its branches , Spoke to the young priests and students .
