It is just what I used to say to a certain gentleman in company in the days of courtship , when , because things did not go quite right , did not proceed with all the rapidity which suited his feelings , he was apt to be in despair , and exclaim that he was sure at this rate it would be _May_ before Hymen ' s saffron robe would be put on for us .
4 : 13 Thy plants are an orchard of pomegranates , with pleasant fruits ; camphire , with spikenard , 4 : 14 Spikenard and saffron ; calamus and cinnamon , with all trees of frankincense ; myrrh and aloes , with all the chief spices : 4 : 15 A fountain of gardens , a well of living waters , and streams from Lebanon .
THE TWO POETS OF SAFFRON PARK
THE suburb of Saffron Park lay on the sunset side of London , as red and ragged as a cloud of sunset .
There are others who may remember it because it marked the first appearance in the place of the second poet of Saffron Park .
So all the Saffron Parkers looked at him as if he had that moment fallen out of that impossible sky .
May I ask why , after taking all this trouble to barricade yourselves in the bowels of the earth , you then parade your whole secret by talking about anarchism to every silly woman in Saffron Park ?"
Also his yellow beard and hair were more unkempt and leonine than when they appeared long afterwards , cut and pointed , on the lawns of Saffron Park .
Acting under the advice of his friend the policeman ( who was professionally inclined to neatness ), he trimmed his hair and beard , bought a good hat , clad himself in an exquisite summer suit of light blue - grey , with a pale yellow flower in the button - hole , and , in short , became that elegant and rather insupportable person whom Gregory had first encountered in the little garden of Saffron Park .
He thought of all the human things in his story -- of the Chinese lanterns in Saffron Park , of the girl ' s red hair in the garden , of the honest , beer - swilling sailors down by the dock , of his loyal companions standing by .
Those green hills of Surrey saw the final collapse and tragedy of the admirable light grey suit in which Syme had set out from Saffron Park .
Syme felt a simple surprise when he saw rising all round him on both sides of the road the red , irregular buildings of Saffron Park .
