I shall never forget his flying Henry ' s kite for him that very windy day last Easter -- and ever since his particular kindness last September twelvemonth in writing that note , at twelve o ' clock at night , on purpose to assure me that there was no scarlet fever at Cobham , I have been convinced there could not be a more feeling heart nor a better man in existence .-- If any body can deserve him , it must be Miss Taylor ."
38 : 28 And it came to pass , when she travailed , that the one put out his hand : and the midwife took and bound upon his hand a scarlet thread , saying , This came out first .
38 : 30 And afterward came out his brother , that had the scarlet thread upon his hand : and his name was called Zarah .
25 : 3 And this is the offering which ye shall take of them ; gold , and silver , and brass , 25 : 4 And blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine linen , and goats ' hair , 25 : 5 And rams ' skins dyed red , and badgers ' skins , and shittim wood , 25 : 6 Oil for the light , spices for anointing oil , and for sweet incense , 25 : 7 Onyx stones , and stones to be set in the ephod , and in the breastplate .
26 : 1 Moreover thou shalt make the tabernacle with ten curtains of fine twined linen , and blue , and purple , and scarlet : with cherubims of cunning work shalt thou make them .
26 : 31 And thou shalt make a vail of blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine twined linen of cunning work : with cherubims shall it be made : 26 : 32 And thou shalt hang it upon four pillars of shittim wood overlaid with gold : their hooks shall be of gold , upon the four sockets of silver .
26 : 36 And thou shalt make an hanging for the door of the tent , of blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine twined linen , wrought with needlework .
27 : 16 And for the gate of the court shall be an hanging of twenty cubits , of blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine twined linen , wrought with needlework : and their pillars shall be four , and their sockets four .
28 : 5 And they shall take gold , and blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine linen .
28 : 6 And they shall make the ephod of gold , of blue , and of purple , of scarlet , and fine twined linen , with cunning work .
28 : 8 And the curious girdle of the ephod , which is upon it , shall be of the same , according to the work thereof ; even of gold , of blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine twined linen .
28 : 15 And thou shalt make the breastplate of judgment with cunning work ; after the work of the ephod thou shalt make it ; of gold , of blue , and of purple , and of scarlet , and of fine twined linen , shalt thou make it .
28 : 33 And beneath upon the hem of it thou shalt make pomegranates of blue , and of purple , and of scarlet , round about the hem thereof ; and bells of gold between them round about : 28 : 34 A golden bell and a pomegranate , a golden bell and a pomegranate , upon the hem of the robe round about .
35 : 4 And Moses spake unto all the congregation of the children of Israel , saying , This is the thing which the LORD commanded , saying , 35 : 5 Take ye from among you an offering unto the LORD : whosoever is of a willing heart , let him bring it , an offering of the LORD ; gold , and silver , and brass , 35 : 6 And blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine linen , and goats ' hair , 35 : 7 And rams ' skins dyed red , and badgers ' skins , and shittim wood , 35 : 8 And oil for the light , and spices for anointing oil , and for the sweet incense , 35 : 9 And onyx stones , and stones to be set for the ephod , and for the breastplate .
35 : 23 And every man , with whom was found blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine linen , and goats ' hair , and red skins of rams , and badgers ' skins , brought them .
35 : 25 And all the women that were wise hearted did spin with their hands , and brought that which they had spun , both of blue , and of purple , and of scarlet , and of fine linen .
35 : 35 Them hath he filled with wisdom of heart , to work all manner of work , of the engraver , and of the cunning workman , and of the embroiderer , in blue , and in purple , in scarlet , and in fine linen , and of the weaver , even of them that do any work , and of those that devise cunning work .
36 : 8 And every wise hearted man among them that wrought the work of the tabernacle made ten curtains of fine twined linen , and blue , and purple , and scarlet : with cherubims of cunning work made he them .
36 : 35 And he made a vail of blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine twined linen : with cherubims made he it of cunning work .
36 : 37 And he made an hanging for the tabernacle door of blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine twined linen , of needlework ; 36 : 38 And the five pillars of it with their hooks : and he overlaid their chapiters and their fillets with gold : but their five sockets were of brass .
38 : 18 And the hanging for the gate of the court was needlework , of blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine twined linen : and twenty cubits was the length , and the height in the breadth was five cubits , answerable to the hangings of the court .
38 : 23 And with him was Aholiab , son of Ahisamach , of the tribe of Dan , an engraver , and a cunning workman , and an embroiderer in blue , and in purple , and in scarlet , and fine linen .
39 : 1 And of the blue , and purple , and scarlet , they made cloths of service , to do service in the holy place , and made the holy garments for Aaron ; as the LORD commanded Moses .
39 : 2 And he made the ephod of gold , blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine twined linen .
39 : 3 And they did beat the gold into thin plates , and cut it into wires , to work it in the blue , and in the purple , and in the scarlet , and in the fine linen , with cunning work .
39 : 5 And the curious girdle of his ephod , that was upon it , was of the same , according to the work thereof ; of gold , blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine twined linen ; as the LORD commanded Moses .
39 : 8 And he made the breastplate of cunning work , like the work of the ephod ; of gold , blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine twined linen .
39 : 24 And they made upon the hems of the robe pomegranates of blue , and purple , and scarlet , and twined linen .
39 : 27 And they made coats of fine linen of woven work for Aaron , and for his sons , 39 : 28 And a mitre of fine linen , and goodly bonnets of fine linen , and linen breeches of fine twined linen , 39 : 29 And a girdle of fine twined linen , and blue , and purple , and scarlet , of needlework ; as the LORD commanded Moses .
14 : 1 And the LORD spake unto Moses , saying , 14 : 2 This shall be the law of the leper in the day of his cleansing : He shall be brought unto the priest : 14 : 3 And the priest shall go forth out of the camp ; and the priest shall look , and , behold , if the plague of leprosy be healed in the leper ; 14 : 4 Then shall the priest command to take for him that is to be cleansed two birds alive and clean , and cedar wood , and scarlet , and hyssop : 14 : 5 And the priest shall command that one of the birds be killed in an earthen vessel over running water : 14 : 6 As for the living bird , he shall take it , and the cedar wood , and the scarlet , and the hyssop , and shall dip them and the living bird in the blood of the bird that was killed over the running water : 14 : 7 And he shall sprinkle upon him that is to be cleansed from the leprosy seven times , and shall pronounce him clean , and shall let the living bird loose into the open field .
14 : 49 And he shall take to cleanse the house two birds , and cedar wood , and scarlet , and hyssop : 14 : 50 And he shall kill the one of the birds in an earthen vessel over running water : 14 : 51 And he shall take the cedar wood , and the hyssop , and the scarlet , and the living bird , and dip them in the blood of the slain bird , and in the running water , and sprinkle the house seven times : 14 : 52 And he shall cleanse the house with the blood of the bird , and with the running water , and with the living bird , and with the cedar wood , and with the hyssop , and with the scarlet : 14 : 53 But he shall let go the living bird out of the city into the open fields , and make an atonement for the house : and it shall be clean .
4 : 7 And upon the table of shewbread they shall spread a cloth of blue , and put thereon the dishes , and the spoons , and the bowls , and covers to cover withal : and the continual bread shall be thereon : 4 : 8 And they shall spread upon them a cloth of scarlet , and cover the same with a covering of badgers ' skins , and shall put in the staves thereof .
19 : 1 And the LORD spake unto Moses and unto Aaron , saying , 19 : 2 This is the ordinance of the law which the LORD hath commanded , saying , Speak unto the children of Israel , that they bring thee a red heifer without spot , wherein is no blemish , and upon which never came yoke : 19 : 3 And ye shall give her unto Eleazar the priest , that he may bring her forth without the camp , and one shall slay her before his face : 19 : 4 And Eleazar the priest shall take of her blood with his finger , and sprinkle of her blood directly before the tabernacle of the congregation seven times : 19 : 5 And one shall burn the heifer in his sight ; her skin , and her flesh , and her blood , with her dung , shall he burn : 19 : 6 And the priest shall take cedar wood , and hyssop , and scarlet , and cast it into the midst of the burning of the heifer .
2 : 18 Behold , when we come into the land , thou shalt bind this line of scarlet thread in the window which thou didst let us down by : and thou shalt bring thy father , and thy mother , and thy brethren , and all thy father ' s household , home unto thee .
And she sent them away , and they departed : and she bound the scarlet line in the window .
1 : 24 Ye daughters of Israel , weep over Saul , who clothed you in scarlet , with other delights , who put on ornaments of gold upon your apparel .
31 : 21 She is not afraid of the snow for her household : for all her household are clothed with scarlet .
4 : 3 Thy lips are like a thread of scarlet , and thy speech is comely : thy temples are like a piece of a pomegranate within thy locks .
1 : 18 Come now , and let us reason together , saith the LORD : though your sins be as scarlet , they shall be as white as snow ; though they be red like crimson , they shall be as wool .
4 : 5 They that did feed delicately are desolate in the streets : they that were brought up in scarlet embrace dunghills .
And the king spake , and said to the wise men of Babylon , Whosoever shall read this writing , and shew me the interpretation thereof , shall be clothed with scarlet , and have a chain of gold about his neck , and shall be the third ruler in the kingdom .
5 : 15 And now the wise men , the astrologers , have been brought in before me , that they should read this writing , and make known unto me the interpretation thereof : but they could not shew the interpretation of the thing : 5 : 16 And I have heard of thee , that thou canst make interpretations , and dissolve doubts : now if thou canst read the writing , and make known to me the interpretation thereof , thou shalt be clothed with scarlet , and have a chain of gold about thy neck , and shalt be the third ruler in the kingdom .
5 : 29 Then commanded Belshazzar , and they clothed Daniel with scarlet , and put a chain of gold about his neck , and made a proclamation concerning him , that he should be the third ruler in the kingdom .
2 : 3 The shield of his mighty men is made red , the valiant men are in scarlet : the chariots shall be with flaming torches in the day of his preparation , and the fir trees shall be terribly shaken .
27 : 28 And they stripped him , and put on him a scarlet robe .
9 : 19 For when Moses had spoken every precept to all the people according to the law , he took the blood of calves and of goats , with water , and scarlet wool , and hyssop , and sprinkled both the book , and all the people , 9 : 20 Saying , This is the blood of the testament which God hath enjoined unto you .
17 : 3 So he carried me away in the spirit into the wilderness : and I saw a woman sit upon a scarlet coloured beast , full of names of blasphemy , having seven heads and ten horns .
17 : 4 And the woman was arrayed in purple and scarlet colour , and decked with gold and precious stones and pearls , having a golden cup in her hand full of abominations and filthiness of her fornication : 17 : 5 And upon her forehead was a name written , MYSTERY , BABYLON THE GREAT , THE MOTHER OF HARLOTS AND ABOMINATIONS OF THE EARTH .
18 : 11 And the merchants of the earth shall weep and mourn over her ; for no man buyeth their merchandise any more : 18 : 12 The merchandise of gold , and silver , and precious stones , and of pearls , and fine linen , and purple , and silk , and scarlet , and all thyine wood , and all manner vessels of ivory , and all manner vessels of most precious wood , and of brass , and iron , and marble , 18 : 13 And cinnamon , and odours , and ointments , and frankincense , and wine , and oil , and fine flour , and wheat , and beasts , and sheep , and horses , and chariots , and slaves , and souls of men .
18 : 15 The merchants of these things , which were made rich by her , shall stand afar off for the fear of her torment , weeping and wailing , 18 : 16 And saying , Alas , alas that great city , that was clothed in fine linen , and purple , and scarlet , and decked with gold , and precious stones , and pearls !
His red hair and beard looked almost scarlet , and his pale face as bright as a boy ' s .
The little man who owned it all threw himself on a heap of scarlet and golden cushions and struck his hands together .
The sea that lay before them was like a pavement of emerald , bright and almost brittle ; the sky against which its strict horizon hung was almost absolutely white , except that close to the sky line , like scarlet braids on the hem of a garment , lay strings of flaky cloud of so gleaming and gorgeous a red that they seemed cut out of some strange blood - red celestial metal , of which the mere gold of this earth is but a drab yellow imitation .
When it came about a hundred feet above the garden , a shaggy , lean figure leapt up in it , almost black against the bronze and scarlet of the west , and , flinging out a kind of hook or anchor , caught on to the green apple - tree just under the wall ; and from that fixed holding ground the ship swung in the red tempest like a captive balloon .
The first was that his lean brown body was bare to the belt of his loose white trousers ; the other that through hygiene , affectation , or whatever other cause , he had a scarlet handkerchief tied tightly but somewhat aslant across his brow .
One was that under the scarlet rag the hair was plentiful , but white as with the last snows of mortality .
Another instant and the hall was full of the fog of it , and red sparks began to swarm like scarlet bees .
Some of the tales , indeed , are not fit for public print --, such as the story of the Scarlet Nuns , the abominable story of the Spotted Dog , or the thing that was done in the quarry .
He had a large palm - leaf hat on the back of his head ( suggesting a halo that was by no means appropriate to the face ), but otherwise he was clad only in a very vivid suit of striped scarlet and yellow pyjamas ; which , though glowing enough to behold , must have been , on a fresh morning , pretty chilly to wear .
His face was deadly pale , so that by contrast his queer red hair looked almost scarlet .
The door was opened by a large , red - faced man , in a blue coat and scarlet waistcoat , to whom he felt afraid to give his message , lest he should not be a servant .
repeated Franklin to himself ; but , looking in the butler ' s face , which was a deeper scarlet than usual , he judged that he was far from sober , and did not doubt but that the next morning , when he came to the use of his reason , he would be sensible of his injustice , and apologize for his box of the ear .
Cecilia , however , was equally sure that she could do it much better ; and a dispute would have inevitably ensued , if Cecilia , recollecting herself just as her colour rose to scarlet , had not yielded -- yielded , with no very good grace indeed , but as well as could be expected for the first time .
This man was a wonderful vigor , calmness , beauty of person , The shape of his head , the pale yellow and white of his hair and beard , the immeasurable meaning of his black eyes , the richness and breadth of his manners , These I used to go and visit him to see , he was wise also , He was six feet tall , he was over eighty years old , his sons were massive , clean , bearded , tan - faced , handsome , They and his daughters loved him , all who saw him loved him , They did not love him by allowance , they loved him with personal love , He drank water only , the blood show ' d like scarlet through the clear - brown skin of his face , He was a frequent gunner and fisher , he sail ' d his boat himself , he had a fine one presented to him by a ship - joiner , he had fowling - pieces presented to him by men that loved him , When he went with his five sons and many grand - sons to hunt or fish , you would pick him out as the most beautiful and vigorous of the gang , You would wish long and long to be with him , you would wish to sit by him in the boat that you and he might touch each other .
trickle , slow drops , Candid from me falling , drip , bleeding drops , From wounds made to free you whence you were prison ' d , From my face , from my forehead and lips , From my breast , from within where I was conceal ' d , press forth red drops , confession drops , Stain every page , stain every song I sing , every word I say , bloody drops , Let them know your scarlet heat , let them glisten , Saturate them with yourself all ashamed and wet , Glow upon all I have written or shall write , bleeding drops , Let it all be seen in your light , blushing drops .
I go to all the places one after another , and then row back to the shore , There in a huge kettle of boiling water the lobsters shall be boil ' d till their color becomes scarlet .
Yet behind all lowering stealing , lo , a shape , Vague as the night , draped interminably , head , front and form , in scarlet folds , Whose face and eyes none may see , Out of its robes only this , the red robes lifted by the arm , One finger crook ' d pointed high over the top , like the head of a snake appears .
A line in long array where they wind betwixt green islands , They take a serpentine course , their arms flash in the sun -- hark to the musical clank , Behold the silvery river , in it the splashing horses loitering stop to drink , Behold the brown - faced men , each group , each person a picture , the negligent rest on the saddles , Some emerge on the opposite bank , others are just entering the ford -- while , Scarlet and blue and snowy white , The guidon flags flutter gayly in the wind .
World take good notice , silver stars fading , Milky hue ript , wet of white detaching , Coals thirty - eight , baleful and burning , Scarlet , significant , hands off warning , Now and henceforth flaunt from these shores .
