I have some notion of putting such a trimming as this to my white and silver poplin .
Within abundance of silver paper was a pretty little Tunbridge - ware box , which Harriet opened : it was well lined with the softest cotton ; but , excepting the cotton , Emma saw only a small piece of court - plaister .
The elegant little clock on the mantel - piece had struck " eleven with its silver sounds ," and the watchman was beginning to be heard at a distance telling the same tale , before Mr Elliot or any of them seemed to feel that he had been there long .
13 : 2 And Abram was very rich in cattle , in silver , and in gold .
20 : 16 And unto Sarah he said , Behold , I have given thy brother a thousand pieces of silver : behold , he is to thee a covering of the eyes , unto all that are with thee , and with all other : thus she was reproved .
23 : 14 And Ephron answered Abraham , saying unto him , 23 : 15 My lord , hearken unto me : the land is worth four hundred shekels of silver ; what is that betwixt me and thee ?
23 : 16 And Abraham hearkened unto Ephron ; and Abraham weighed to Ephron the silver , which he had named in the audience of the sons of Heth , four hundred shekels of silver , current money with the merchant .
24 : 35 And the LORD hath blessed my master greatly ; and he is become great : and he hath given him flocks , and herds , and silver , and gold , and menservants , and maidservants , and camels , and asses .
24 : 53 And the servant brought forth jewels of silver , and jewels of gold , and raiment , and gave them to Rebekah : he gave also to her brother and to her mother precious things .
37 : 28 Then there passed by Midianites merchantmen ; and they drew and lifted up Joseph out of the pit , and sold Joseph to the Ishmeelites for twenty pieces of silver : and they brought Joseph into Egypt .
44 : 2 And put my cup , the silver cup , in the sack ' s mouth of the youngest , and his corn money .
God forbid that thy servants should do according to this thing : 44 : 8 Behold , the money , which we found in our sacks ' mouths , we brought again unto thee out of the land of Canaan : how then should we steal out of thy lord ' s house silver or gold ?
45 : 22 To all of them he gave each man changes of raiment ; but to Benjamin he gave three hundred pieces of silver , and five changes of raiment .
3 : 22 But every woman shall borrow of her neighbour , and of her that sojourneth in her house , jewels of silver , and jewels of gold , and raiment : and ye shall put them upon your sons , and upon your daughters ; and ye shall spoil the Egyptians .
11 : 2 Speak now in the ears of the people , and let every man borrow of his neighbour , and every woman of her neighbour , jewels of silver and jewels of gold .
12 : 35 And the children of Israel did according to the word of Moses ; and they borrowed of the Egyptians jewels of silver , and jewels of gold , and raiment : 12 : 36 And the LORD gave the people favour in the sight of the Egyptians , so that they lent unto them such things as they required .
20 : 23 Ye shall not make with me gods of silver , neither shall ye make unto you gods of gold .
21 : 32 If the ox shall push a manservant or a maidservant ; he shall give unto their master thirty shekels of silver , and the ox shall be stoned .
25 : 3 And this is the offering which ye shall take of them ; gold , and silver , and brass , 25 : 4 And blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine linen , and goats ' hair , 25 : 5 And rams ' skins dyed red , and badgers ' skins , and shittim wood , 25 : 6 Oil for the light , spices for anointing oil , and for sweet incense , 25 : 7 Onyx stones , and stones to be set in the ephod , and in the breastplate .
26 : 19 And thou shalt make forty sockets of silver under the twenty boards ; two sockets under one board for his two tenons , and two sockets under another board for his two tenons .
26 : 20 And for the second side of the tabernacle on the north side there shall be twenty boards : 26 : 21 And their forty sockets of silver ; two sockets under one board , and two sockets under another board .
26 : 25 And they shall be eight boards , and their sockets of silver , sixteen sockets ; two sockets under one board , and two sockets under another board .
26 : 31 And thou shalt make a vail of blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine twined linen of cunning work : with cherubims shall it be made : 26 : 32 And thou shalt hang it upon four pillars of shittim wood overlaid with gold : their hooks shall be of gold , upon the four sockets of silver .
27 : 9 And thou shalt make the court of the tabernacle : for the south side southward there shall be hangings for the court of fine twined linen of an hundred cubits long for one side : 27 : 10 And the twenty pillars thereof and their twenty sockets shall be of brass ; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets shall be of silver .
27 : 11 And likewise for the north side in length there shall be hangings of an hundred cubits long , and his twenty pillars and their twenty sockets of brass ; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets of silver .
27 : 17 All the pillars round about the court shall be filleted with silver ; their hooks shall be of silver , and their sockets of brass .
31 : 1 And the LORD spake unto Moses , saying , 31 : 2 See , I have called by name Bezaleel the son of Uri , the son of Hur , of the tribe of Judah : 31 : 3 And I have filled him with the spirit of God , in wisdom , and in understanding , and in knowledge , and in all manner of workmanship , 31 : 4 To devise cunning works , to work in gold , and in silver , and in brass , 31 : 5 And in cutting of stones , to set them , and in carving of timber , to work in all manner of workmanship .
35 : 4 And Moses spake unto all the congregation of the children of Israel , saying , This is the thing which the LORD commanded , saying , 35 : 5 Take ye from among you an offering unto the LORD : whosoever is of a willing heart , let him bring it , an offering of the LORD ; gold , and silver , and brass , 35 : 6 And blue , and purple , and scarlet , and fine linen , and goats ' hair , 35 : 7 And rams ' skins dyed red , and badgers ' skins , and shittim wood , 35 : 8 And oil for the light , and spices for anointing oil , and for the sweet incense , 35 : 9 And onyx stones , and stones to be set for the ephod , and for the breastplate .
35 : 24 Every one that did offer an offering of silver and brass brought the LORD ' s offering : and every man , with whom was found shittim wood for any work of the service , brought it .
35 : 30 And Moses said unto the children of Israel , See , the LORD hath called by name Bezaleel the son of Uri , the son of Hur , of the tribe of Judah ; 35 : 31 And he hath filled him with the spirit of God , in wisdom , in understanding , and in knowledge , and in all manner of workmanship ; 35 : 32 And to devise curious works , to work in gold , and in silver , and in brass , 35 : 33 And in the cutting of stones , to set them , and in carving of wood , to make any manner of cunning work .
36 : 23 And he made boards for the tabernacle ; twenty boards for the south side southward : 36 : 24 And forty sockets of silver he made under the twenty boards ; two sockets under one board for his two tenons , and two sockets under another board for his two tenons .
36 : 25 And for the other side of the tabernacle , which is toward the north corner , he made twenty boards , 36 : 26 And their forty sockets of silver ; two sockets under one board , and two sockets under another board .
36 : 30 And there were eight boards ; and their sockets were sixteen sockets of silver , under every board two sockets .
36 : 36 And he made thereunto four pillars of shittim wood , and overlaid them with gold : their hooks were of gold ; and he cast for them four sockets of silver .
38 : 9 And he made the court : on the south side southward the hangings of the court were of fine twined linen , an hundred cubits : 38 : 10 Their pillars were twenty , and their brasen sockets twenty ; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets were of silver .
38 : 11 And for the north side the hangings were an hundred cubits , their pillars were twenty , and their sockets of brass twenty ; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets of silver .
38 : 12 And for the west side were hangings of fifty cubits , their pillars ten , and their sockets ten ; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets of silver .
38 : 17 And the sockets for the pillars were of brass ; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets of silver ; and the overlaying of their chapiters of silver ; and all the pillars of the court were filleted with silver .
38 : 19 And their pillars were four , and their sockets of brass four ; their hooks of silver , and the overlaying of their chapiters and their fillets of silver .
38 : 25 And the silver of them that were numbered of the congregation was an hundred talents , and a thousand seven hundred and threescore and fifteen shekels , after the shekel of the sanctuary : 38 : 26 A bekah for every man , that is , half a shekel , after the shekel of the sanctuary , for every one that went to be numbered , from twenty years old and upward , for six hundred thousand and three thousand and five hundred and fifty men .
38 : 27 And of the hundred talents of silver were cast the sockets of the sanctuary , and the sockets of the vail ; an hundred sockets of the hundred talents , a talent for a socket .
5 : 14 And the LORD spake unto Moses , saying , 5 : 15 If a soul commit a trespass , and sin through ignorance , in the holy things of the LORD ; then he shall bring for his trespass unto the LORD a ram without blemish out of the flocks , with thy estimation by shekels of silver , after the shekel of the sanctuary , for a trespass offering .
27 : 3 And thy estimation shall be of the male from twenty years old even unto sixty years old , even thy estimation shall be fifty shekels of silver , after the shekel of the sanctuary .
27 : 6 And if it be from a month old even unto five years old , then thy estimation shall be of the male five shekels of silver , and for the female thy estimation shall be three shekels of silver .
27 : 16 And if a man shall sanctify unto the LORD some part of a field of his possession , then thy estimation shall be according to the seed thereof : an homer of barley seed shall be valued at fifty shekels of silver .
7 : 12 And he that offered his offering the first day was Nahshon the son of Amminadab , of the tribe of Judah : 7 : 13 And his offering was one silver charger , the weight thereof was an hundred and thirty shekels , one silver bowl of seventy shekels , after the shekel of the sanctuary ; both of them were full of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering : 7 : 14 One spoon of ten shekels of gold , full of incense : 7 : 15 One young bullock , one ram , one lamb of the first year , for a burnt offering : 7 : 16 One kid of the goats for a sin offering : 7 : 17 And for a sacrifice of peace offerings , two oxen , five rams , five he goats , five lambs of the first year : this was the offering of Nahshon the son of Amminadab .
7 : 18 On the second day Nethaneel the son of Zuar , prince of Issachar , did offer : 7 : 19 He offered for his offering one silver charger , the weight whereof was an hundred and thirty shekels , one silver bowl of seventy shekels , after the shekel of the sanctuary ; both of them full of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering : 7 : 20 One spoon of gold of ten shekels , full of incense : 7 : 21 One young bullock , one ram , one lamb of the first year , for a burnt offering : 7 : 22 One kid of the goats for a sin offering : 7 : 23 And for a sacrifice of peace offerings , two oxen , five rams , five he goats , five lambs of the first year : this was the offering of Nethaneel the son of Zuar .
7 : 24 On the third day Eliab the son of Helon , prince of the children of Zebulun , did offer : 7 : 25 His offering was one silver charger , the weight whereof was an hundred and thirty shekels , one silver bowl of seventy shekels , after the shekel of the sanctuary ; both of them full of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering : 7 : 26 One golden spoon of ten shekels , full of incense : 7 : 27 One young bullock , one ram , one lamb of the first year , for a burnt offering : 7 : 28 One kid of the goats for a sin offering : 7 : 29 And for a sacrifice of peace offerings , two oxen , five rams , five he goats , five lambs of the first year : this was the offering of Eliab the son of Helon .
7 : 30 On the fourth day Elizur the son of Shedeur , prince of the children of Reuben , did offer : 7 : 31 His offering was one silver charger of the weight of an hundred and thirty shekels , one silver bowl of seventy shekels , after the shekel of the sanctuary ; both of them full of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering : 7 : 32 One golden spoon of ten shekels , full of incense : 7 : 33 One young bullock , one ram , one lamb of the first year , for a burnt offering : 7 : 34 One kid of the goats for a sin offering : 7 : 35 And for a sacrifice of peace offerings , two oxen , five rams , five he goats , five lambs of the first year : this was the offering of Elizur the son of Shedeur .
7 : 36 On the fifth day Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai , prince of the children of Simeon , did offer : 7 : 37 His offering was one silver charger , the weight whereof was an hundred and thirty shekels , one silver bowl of seventy shekels , after the shekel of the sanctuary ; both of them full of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering : 7 : 38 One golden spoon of ten shekels , full of incense : 7 : 39 One young bullock , one ram , one lamb of the first year , for a burnt offering : 7 : 40 One kid of the goats for a sin offering : 7 : 41 And for a sacrifice of peace offerings , two oxen , five rams , five he goats , five lambs of the first year : this was the offering of Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai .
7 : 42 On the sixth day Eliasaph the son of Deuel , prince of the children of Gad , offered : 7 : 43 His offering was one silver charger of the weight of an hundred and thirty shekels , a silver bowl of seventy shekels , after the shekel of the sanctuary ; both of them full of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering : 7 : 44 One golden spoon of ten shekels , full of incense : 7 : 45 One young bullock , one ram , one lamb of the first year , for a burnt offering : 7 : 46 One kid of the goats for a sin offering : 7 : 47 And for a sacrifice of peace offerings , two oxen , five rams , five he goats , five lambs of the first year : this was the offering of Eliasaph the son of Deuel .
7 : 48 On the seventh day Elishama the son of Ammihud , prince of the children of Ephraim , offered : 7 : 49 His offering was one silver charger , the weight whereof was an hundred and thirty shekels , one silver bowl of seventy shekels , after the shekel of the sanctuary ; both of them full of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering : 7 : 50 One golden spoon of ten shekels , full of incense : 7 : 51 One young bullock , one ram , one lamb of the first year , for a burnt offering : 7 : 52 One kid of the goats for a sin offering : 7 : 53 And for a sacrifice of peace offerings , two oxen , five rams , five he goats , five lambs of the first year : this was the offering of Elishama the son of Ammihud .
7 : 54 On the eighth day offered Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur , prince of the children of Manasseh : 7 : 55 His offering was one silver charger of the weight of an hundred and thirty shekels , one silver bowl of seventy shekels , after the shekel of the sanctuary ; both of them full of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering : 7 : 56 One golden spoon of ten shekels , full of incense : 7 : 57 One young bullock , one ram , one lamb of the first year , for a burnt offering : 7 : 58 One kid of the goats for a sin offering : 7 : 59 And for a sacrifice of peace offerings , two oxen , five rams , five he goats , five lambs of the first year : this was the offering of Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur .
7 : 60 On the ninth day Abidan the son of Gideoni , prince of the children of Benjamin , offered : 7 : 61 His offering was one silver charger , the weight whereof was an hundred and thirty shekels , one silver bowl of seventy shekels , after the shekel of the sanctuary ; both of them full of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering : 7 : 62 One golden spoon of ten shekels , full of incense : 7 : 63 One young bullock , one ram , one lamb of the first year , for a burnt offering : 7 : 64 One kid of the goats for a sin offering : 7 : 65 And for a sacrifice of peace offerings , two oxen , five rams , five he goats , five lambs of the first year : this was the offering of Abidan the son of Gideoni .
7 : 66 On the tenth day Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai , prince of the children of Dan , offered : 7 : 67 His offering was one silver charger , the weight whereof was an hundred and thirty shekels , one silver bowl of seventy shekels , after the shekel of the sanctuary ; both of them full of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering : 7 : 68 One golden spoon of ten shekels , full of incense : 7 : 69 One young bullock , one ram , one lamb of the first year , for a burnt offering : 7 : 70 One kid of the goats for a sin offering : 7 : 71 And for a sacrifice of peace offerings , two oxen , five rams , five he goats , five lambs of the first year : this was the offering of Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai .
7 : 72 On the eleventh day Pagiel the son of Ocran , prince of the children of Asher , offered : 7 : 73 His offering was one silver charger , the weight whereof was an hundred and thirty shekels , one silver bowl of seventy shekels , after the shekel of the sanctuary ; both of them full of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering : 7 : 74 One golden spoon of ten shekels , full of incense : 7 : 75 One young bullock , one ram , one lamb of the first year , for a burnt offering : 7 : 76 One kid of the goats for a sin offering : 7 : 77 And for a sacrifice of peace offerings , two oxen , five rams , five he goats , five lambs of the first year : this was the offering of Pagiel the son of Ocran .
7 : 78 On the twelfth day Ahira the son of Enan , prince of the children of Naphtali , offered : 7 : 79 His offering was one silver charger , the weight whereof was an hundred and thirty shekels , one silver bowl of seventy shekels , after the shekel of the sanctuary ; both of them full of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering : 7 : 80 One golden spoon of ten shekels , full of incense : 7 : 81 One young bullock , one ram , one lamb of the first year , for a burnt offering : 7 : 82 One kid of the goats for a sin offering : 7 : 83 And for a sacrifice of peace offerings , two oxen , five rams , five he goats , five lambs of the first year : this was the offering of Ahira the son of Enan .
7 : 84 This was the dedication of the altar , in the day when it was anointed , by the princes of Israel : twelve chargers of silver , twelve silver bowls , twelve spoons of gold : 7 : 85 Each charger of silver weighing an hundred and thirty shekels , each bowl seventy : all the silver vessels weighed two thousand and four hundred shekels , after the shekel of the sanctuary : 7 : 86 The golden spoons were twelve , full of incense , weighing ten shekels apiece , after the shekel of the sanctuary : all the gold of the spoons was an hundred and twenty shekels .
10 : 1 And the LORD spake unto Moses , saying , 10 : 2 Make thee two trumpets of silver ; of a whole piece shalt thou make them : that thou mayest use them for the calling of the assembly , and for the journeying of the camps .
22 : 18 And Balaam answered and said unto the servants of Balak , If Balak would give me his house full of silver and gold , I cannot go beyond the word of the LORD my God , to do less or more .
24 : 12 And Balaam said unto Balak , Spake I not also to thy messengers which thou sentest unto me , saying , 24 : 13 If Balak would give me his house full of silver and gold , I cannot go beyond the commandment of the LORD , to do either good or bad of mine own mind ; but what the LORD saith , that will I speak ?
31 : 21 And Eleazar the priest said unto the men of war which went to the battle , This is the ordinance of the law which the LORD commanded Moses ; 31 : 22 Only the gold , and the silver , the brass , the iron , the tin , and the lead , 31 : 23 Every thing that may abide the fire , ye shall make it go through the fire , and it shall be clean : nevertheless it shall be purified with the water of separation : and all that abideth not the fire ye shall make go through the water .
7 : 25 The graven images of their gods shall ye burn with fire : thou shalt not desire the silver or gold that is on them , nor take it unto thee , lest thou be snared therin : for it is an abomination to the LORD thy God .
8 : 11 Beware that thou forget not the LORD thy God , in not keeping his commandments , and his judgments , and his statutes , which I command thee this day : 8 : 12 Lest when thou hast eaten and art full , and hast built goodly houses , and dwelt therein ; 8 : 13 And when thy herds and thy flocks multiply , and thy silver and thy gold is multiplied , and all that thou hast is multiplied ; 8 : 14 Then thine heart be lifted up , and thou forget the LORD thy God , which brought thee forth out of the land of Egypt , from the house of bondage ; 8 : 15 Who led thee through that great and terrible wilderness , wherein were fiery serpents , and scorpions , and drought , where there was no water ; who brought thee forth water out of the rock of flint ; 8 : 16 Who fed thee in the wilderness with manna , which thy fathers knew not , that he might humble thee , and that he might prove thee , to do thee good at thy latter end ; 8 : 17 And thou say in thine heart , My power and the might of mine hand hath gotten me this wealth .
17 : 17 Neither shall he multiply wives to himself , that his heart turn not away : neither shall he greatly multiply to himself silver and gold .
22 : 18 And the elders of that city shall take that man and chastise him ; 22 : 19 And they shall amerce him in an hundred shekels of silver , and give them unto the father of the damsel , because he hath brought up an evil name upon a virgin of Israel : and she shall be his wife ; he may not put her away all his days .
22 : 28 If a man find a damsel that is a virgin , which is not betrothed , and lay hold on her , and lie with her , and they be found ; 22 : 29 Then the man that lay with her shall give unto the damsel ' s father fifty shekels of silver , and she shall be his wife ; because he hath humbled her , he may not put her away all his days .
29 : 14 Neither with you only do I make this covenant and this oath ; 29 : 15 But with him that standeth here with us this day before the LORD our God , and also with him that is not here with us this day : 29 : 16 ( For ye know how we have dwelt in the land of Egypt ; and how we came through the nations which ye passed by ; 29 : 17 And ye have seen their abominations , and their idols , wood and stone , silver and gold , which were among them :) 29 : 18 Lest there should be among you man , or woman , or family , or tribe , whose heart turneth away this day from the LORD our God , to go and serve the gods of these nations ; lest there should be among you a root that beareth gall and wormwood ; 29 : 19 And it come to pass , when he heareth the words of this curse , that he bless himself in his heart , saying , I shall have peace , though I walk in the imagination of mine heart , to add drunkenness to thirst : 29 : 20 The LORD will not spare him , but then the anger of the LORD and his jealousy shall smoke against that man , and all the curses that are written in this book shall lie upon him , and the LORD shall blot out his name from under heaven .
6 : 19 But all the silver , and gold , and vessels of brass and iron , are consecrated unto the LORD : they shall come into the treasury of the LORD .
6 : 24 And they burnt the city with fire , and all that was therein : only the silver , and the gold , and the vessels of brass and of iron , they put into the treasury of the house of the LORD .
7 : 20 And Achan answered Joshua , and said , Indeed I have sinned against the LORD God of Israel , and thus and thus have I done : 7 : 21 When I saw among the spoils a goodly Babylonish garment , and two hundred shekels of silver , and a wedge of gold of fifty shekels weight , then I coveted them , and took them ; and , behold , they are hid in the earth in the midst of my tent , and the silver under it .
7 : 22 So Joshua sent messengers , and they ran unto the tent ; and , behold , it was hid in his tent , and the silver under it .
7 : 24 And Joshua , and all Israel with him , took Achan the son of Zerah , and the silver , and the garment , and the wedge of gold , and his sons , and his daughters , and his oxen , and his asses , and his sheep , and his tent , and all that he had : and they brought them unto the valley of Achor .
And when Joshua sent them away also unto their tents , then he blessed them , 22 : 8 And he spake unto them , saying , Return with much riches unto your tents , and with very much cattle , with silver , and with gold , and with brass , and with iron , and with very much raiment : divide the spoil of your enemies with your brethren .
24 : 32 And the bones of Joseph , which the children of Israel brought up out of Egypt , buried they in Shechem , in a parcel of ground which Jacob bought of the sons of Hamor the father of Shechem for an hundred pieces of silver : and it became the inheritance of the children of Joseph .
9 : 4 And they gave him threescore and ten pieces of silver out of the house of Baalberith , wherewith Abimelech hired vain and light persons , which followed him .
16 : 5 And the lords of the Philistines came up unto her , and said unto her , Entice him , and see wherein his great strength lieth , and by what means we may prevail against him , that we may bind him to afflict him ; and we will give thee every one of us eleven hundred pieces of silver .
17 : 2 And he said unto his mother , The eleven hundred shekels of silver that were taken from thee , about which thou cursedst , and spakest of also in mine ears , behold , the silver is with me ; I took it .
17 : 3 And when he had restored the eleven hundred shekels of silver to his mother , his mother said , I had wholly dedicated the silver unto the LORD from my hand for my son , to make a graven image and a molten image : now therefore I will restore it unto thee .
17 : 4 Yet he restored the money unto his mother ; and his mother took two hundred shekels of silver , and gave them to the founder , who made thereof a graven image and a molten image : and they were in the house of Micah .
17 : 10 And Micah said unto him , Dwell with me , and be unto me a father and a priest , and I will give thee ten shekels of silver by the year , and a suit of apparel , and thy victuals .
2 : 36 And it shall come to pass , that every one that is left in thine house shall come and crouch to him for a piece of silver and a morsel of bread , and shall say , Put me , I pray thee , into one of the priests ' offices , that I may eat a piece of bread .
9 : 8 And the servant answered Saul again , and said , Behold , I have here at hand the fourth part of a shekel of silver : that will I give to the man of God , to tell us our way .
And Joram brought with him vessels of silver , and vessels of gold , and vessels of brass : 8 : 11 Which also king David did dedicate unto the LORD , with the silver and gold that he had dedicated of all nations which he subdued ; 8 : 12 Of Syria , and of Moab , and of the children of Ammon , and of the Philistines , and of Amalek , and of the spoil of Hadadezer , son of Rehob , king of Zobah .
and I would have given thee ten shekels of silver , and a girdle .
18 : 12 And the man said unto Joab , Though I should receive a thousand shekels of silver in mine hand , yet would I not put forth mine hand against the king ' s son : for in our hearing the king charged thee and Abishai and Ittai , saying , Beware that none touch the young man Absalom .
21 : 4 And the Gibeonites said unto him , We will have no silver nor gold of Saul , nor of his house ; neither for us shalt thou kill any man in Israel .
So David bought the threshingfloor and the oxen for fifty shekels of silver .
And Solomon brought in the things which David his father had dedicated ; even the silver , and the gold , and the vessels , did he put among the treasures of the house of the LORD .
10 : 21 And all king Solomon ' s drinking vessels were of gold , and all the vessels of the house of the forest of Lebanon were of pure gold ; none were of silver : it was nothing accounted of in the days of Solomon .
10 : 22 For the king had at sea a navy of Tharshish with the navy of Hiram : once in three years came the navy of Tharshish , bringing gold , and silver , ivory , and apes , and peacocks .
10 : 25 And they brought every man his present , vessels of silver , and vessels of gold , and garments , and armour , and spices , horses , and mules , a rate year by year .
10 : 27 And the king made silver to be in Jerusalem as stones , and cedars made he to be as the sycomore trees that are in the vale , for abundance .
10 : 29 And a chariot came up and went out of Egypt for six hundred shekels of silver , and an horse for an hundred and fifty : and so for all the kings of the Hittites , and for the kings of Syria , did they bring them out by their means .
15 : 15 And he brought in the things which his father had dedicated , and the things which himself had dedicated , into the house of the LORD , silver , and gold , and vessels .
15 : 18 Then Asa took all the silver and the gold that were left in the treasures of the house of the LORD , and the treasures of the king ' s house , and delivered them into the hand of his servants : and king Asa sent them to Benhadad , the son of Tabrimon , the son of Hezion , king of Syria , that dwelt at Damascus , saying , 15 : 19 There is a league between me and thee , and between my father and thy father : behold , I have sent unto thee a present of silver and gold ; come and break thy league with Baasha king of Israel , that he may depart from me .
16 : 24 And he bought the hill Samaria of Shemer for two talents of silver , and built on the hill , and called the name of the city which he built , after the name of Shemer , owner of the hill , Samaria .
20 : 2 And he sent messengers to Ahab king of Israel into the city , and said unto him , Thus saith Benhadad , 20 : 3 Thy silver and thy gold is mine ; thy wives also and thy children , even the goodliest , are mine .
20 : 5 And the messengers came again , and said , Thus speaketh Benhadad , saying , Although I have sent unto thee , saying , Thou shalt deliver me thy silver , and thy gold , and thy wives , and thy children ; 20 : 6 Yet I will send my servants unto thee to morrow about this time , and they shall search thine house , and the houses of thy servants ; and it shall be , that whatsoever is pleasant in thine eyes , they shall put it in their hand , and take it away .
20 : 7 Then the king of Israel called all the elders of the land , and said , Mark , I pray you , and see how this man seeketh mischief : for he sent unto me for my wives , and for my children , and for my silver , and for my gold ; and I denied him not .
20 : 39 And as the king passed by , he cried unto the king : and he said , Thy servant went out into the midst of the battle ; and , behold , a man turned aside , and brought a man unto me , and said , Keep this man : if by any means he be missing , then shall thy life be for his life , or else thou shalt pay a talent of silver .
And he departed , and took with him ten talents of silver , and six thousand pieces of gold , and ten changes of raiment .
My master hath sent me , saying , Behold , even now there be come to me from mount Ephraim two young men of the sons of the prophets : give them , I pray thee , a talent of silver , and two changes of garments .
And he urged him , and bound two talents of silver in two bags , with two changes of garments , and laid them upon two of his servants ; and they bare them before him .
6 : 25 And there was a great famine in Samaria : and , behold , they besieged it , until an ass ' s head was sold for fourscore pieces of silver , and the fourth part of a cab of dove ' s dung for five pieces of silver .
7 : 8 And when these lepers came to the uttermost part of the camp , they went into one tent , and did eat and drink , and carried thence silver , and gold , and raiment , and went and hid it ; and came again , and entered into another tent , and carried thence also , and went and hid it .
12 : 13 Howbeit there were not made for the house of the LORD bowls of silver , snuffers , basons , trumpets , any vessels of gold , or vessels of silver , of the money that was brought into the house of the LORD : 12 : 14 But they gave that to the workmen , and repaired therewith the house of the LORD .
14 : 14 And he took all the gold and silver , and all the vessels that were found in the house of the LORD , and in the treasures of the king ' s house , and hostages , and returned to Samaria .
15 : 19 And Pul the king of Assyria came against the land : and Menahem gave Pul a thousand talents of silver , that his hand might be with him to confirm the kingdom in his hand .
15 : 20 And Menahem exacted the money of Israel , even of all the mighty men of wealth , of each man fifty shekels of silver , to give to the king of Assyria .
16 : 8 And Ahaz took the silver and gold that was found in the house of the LORD , and in the treasures of the king ' s house , and sent it for a present to the king of Assyria .
And the king of Assyria appointed unto Hezekiah king of Judah three hundred talents of silver and thirty talents of gold .
18 : 15 And Hezekiah gave him all the silver that was found in the house of the LORD , and in the treasures of the king ' s house .
20 : 13 And Hezekiah hearkened unto them , and shewed them all the house of his precious things , the silver , and the gold , and the spices , and the precious ointment , and all the house of his armour , and all that was found in his treasures : there was nothing in his house , nor in all his dominion , that Hezekiah shewed them not .
22 : 3 And it came to pass in the eighteenth year of king Josiah , that the king sent Shaphan the son of Azaliah , the son of Meshullam , the scribe , to the house of the LORD , saying , 22 : 4 Go up to Hilkiah the high priest , that he may sum the silver which is brought into the house of the LORD , which the keepers of the door have gathered of the people : 22 : 5 And let them deliver it into the hand of the doers of the work , that have the oversight of the house of the LORD : and let them give it to the doers of the work which is in the house of the LORD , to repair the breaches of the house , 22 : 6 Unto carpenters , and builders , and masons , and to buy timber and hewn stone to repair the house .
23 : 33 And Pharaohnechoh put him in bands at Riblah in the land of Hamath , that he might not reign in Jerusalem ; and put the land to a tribute of an hundred talents of silver , and a talent of gold .
23 : 35 And Jehoiakim gave the silver and the gold to Pharaoh ; but he taxed the land to give the money according to the commandment of Pharaoh : he exacted the silver and the gold of the people of the land , of every one according to his taxation , to give it unto Pharaohnechoh .
25 : 15 And the firepans , and the bowls , and such things as were of gold , in gold , and of silver , in silver , the captain of the guard took away .
18 : 9 Now when Tou king of Hamath heard how David had smitten all the host of Hadarezer king of Zobah ; 18 : 10 He sent Hadoram his son to king David , to enquire of his welfare , and to congratulate him , because he had fought against Hadarezer , and smitten him ; ( for Hadarezer had war with Tou ;) and with him all manner of vessels of gold and silver and brass .
18 : 11 Them also king David dedicated unto the LORD , with the silver and the gold that he brought from all these nations ; from Edom , and from Moab , and from the children of Ammon , and from the Philistines , and from Amalek .
19 : 6 And when the children of Ammon saw that they had made themselves odious to David , Hanun and the children of Ammon sent a thousand talents of silver to hire them chariots and horsemen out of Mesopotamia , and out of Syriamaachah , and out of Zobah .
22 : 14 Now , behold , in my trouble I have prepared for the house of the LORD an hundred thousand talents of gold , and a thousand thousand talents of silver ; and of brass and iron without weight ; for it is in abundance : timber also and stone have I prepared ; and thou mayest add thereto .
22 : 16 Of the gold , the silver , and the brass , and the iron , there is no number .
28 : 14 He gave of gold by weight for things of gold , for all instruments of all manner of service ; silver also for all instruments of silver by weight , for all instruments of every kind of service : 28 : 15 Even the weight for the candlesticks of gold , and for their lamps of gold , by weight for every candlestick , and for the lamps thereof : and for the candlesticks of silver by weight , both for the candlestick , and also for the lamps thereof , according to the use of every candlestick .
28 : 16 And by weight he gave gold for the tables of shewbread , for every table ; and likewise silver for the tables of silver : 28 : 17 Also pure gold for the fleshhooks , and the bowls , and the cups : and for the golden basons he gave gold by weight for every bason ; and likewise silver by weight for every bason of silver : 28 : 18 And for the altar of incense refined gold by weight ; and gold for the pattern of the chariot of the cherubims , that spread out their wings , and covered the ark of the covenant of the LORD .
29 : 2 Now I have prepared with all my might for the house of my God the gold for things to be made of gold , and the silver for things of silver , and the brass for things of brass , the iron for things of iron , and wood for things of wood ; onyx stones , and stones to be set , glistering stones , and of divers colours , and all manner of precious stones , and marble stones in abundance .
29 : 3 Moreover , because I have set my affection to the house of my God , I have of mine own proper good , of gold and silver , which I have given to the house of my God , over and above all that I have prepared for the holy house .
29 : 4 Even three thousand talents of gold , of the gold of Ophir , and seven thousand talents of refined silver , to overlay the walls of the houses withal : 29 : 5 The gold for things of gold , and the silver for things of silver , and for all manner of work to be made by the hands of artificers .
29 : 6 Then the chief of the fathers and princes of the tribes of Israel and the captains of thousands and of hundreds , with the rulers of the king ' s work , offered willingly , 29 : 7 And gave for the service of the house of God of gold five thousand talents and ten thousand drams , and of silver ten thousand talents , and of brass eighteen thousand talents , and one hundred thousand talents of iron .
1 : 15 And the king made silver and gold at Jerusalem as plenteous as stones , and cedar trees made he as the sycomore trees that are in the vale for abundance .
1 : 17 And they fetched up , and brought forth out of Egypt a chariot for six hundred shekels of silver , and an horse for an hundred and fifty : and so brought they out horses for all the kings of the Hittites , and for the kings of Syria , by their means .
2 : 7 Send me now therefore a man cunning to work in gold , and in silver , and in brass , and in iron , and in purple , and crimson , and blue , and that can skill to grave with the cunning men that are with me in Judah and in Jerusalem , whom David my father did provide .
2 : 13 And now I have sent a cunning man , endued with understanding , of Huram my father ' s , 2 : 14 The son of a woman of the daughters of Dan , and his father was a man of Tyre , skilful to work in gold , and in silver , in brass , in iron , in stone , and in timber , in purple , in blue , and in fine linen , and in crimson ; also to grave any manner of graving , and to find out every device which shall be put to him , with thy cunning men , and with the cunning men of my lord David thy father .
5 : 1 Thus all the work that Solomon made for the house of the LORD was finished : and Solomon brought in all the things that David his father had dedicated ; and the silver , and the gold , and all the instruments , put he among the treasures of the house of God .
And all the kings of Arabia and governors of the country brought gold and silver to Solomon .
9 : 20 And all the drinking vessels of king Solomon were of gold , and all the vessels of the house of the forest of Lebanon were of pure gold : none were of silver ; it was not any thing accounted of in the days of Solomon .
9 : 21 For the king ' s ships went to Tarshish with the servants of Huram : every three years once came the ships of Tarshish bringing gold , and silver , ivory , and apes , and peacocks .
9 : 24 And they brought every man his present , vessels of silver , and vessels of gold , and raiment , harness , and spices , horses , and mules , a rate year by year .
9 : 27 And the king made silver in Jerusalem as stones , and cedar trees made he as the sycomore trees that are in the low plains in abundance .
15 : 18 And he brought into the house of God the things that his father had dedicated , and that he himself had dedicated , silver , and gold , and vessels .
16 : 2 Then Asa brought out silver and gold out of the treasures of the house of the LORD and of the king ' s house , and sent to Benhadad king of Syria , that dwelt at Damascus , saying , 16 : 3 There is a league between me and thee , as there was between my father and thy father : behold , I have sent thee silver and gold ; go , break thy league with Baasha king of Israel , that he may depart from me .
17 : 11 Also some of the Philistines brought Jehoshaphat presents , and tribute silver ; and the Arabians brought him flocks , seven thousand and seven hundred rams , and seven thousand and seven hundred he goats .
21 : 3 And their father gave them great gifts of silver , and of gold , and of precious things , with fenced cities in Judah : but the kingdom gave he to Jehoram ; because he was the firstborn .
24 : 14 And when they had finished it , they brought the rest of the money before the king and Jehoiada , whereof were made vessels for the house of the LORD , even vessels to minister , and to offer withal , and spoons , and vessels of gold and silver .
25 : 6 He hired also an hundred thousand mighty men of valour out of Israel for an hundred talents of silver .
25 : 24 And he took all the gold and the silver , and all the vessels that were found in the house of God with Obededom , and the treasures of the king ' s house , the hostages also , and returned to Samaria .
And the children of Ammon gave him the same year an hundred talents of silver , and ten thousand measures of wheat , and ten thousand of barley .
32 : 27 And Hezekiah had exceeding much riches and honour : and he made himself treasuries for silver , and for gold , and for precious stones , and for spices , and for shields , and for all manner of pleasant jewels ; 32 : 28 Storehouses also for the increase of corn , and wine , and oil ; and stalls for all manner of beasts , and cotes for flocks .
36 : 3 And the king of Egypt put him down at Jerusalem , and condemned the land in an hundred talents of silver and a talent of gold .
1 : 4 And whosoever remaineth in any place where he sojourneth , let the men of his place help him with silver , and with gold , and with goods , and with beasts , beside the freewill offering for the house of God that is in Jerusalem .
1 : 6 And all they that were about them strengthened their hands with vessels of silver , with gold , with goods , and with beasts , and with precious things , beside all that was willingly offered .
1 : 9 And this is the number of them : thirty chargers of gold , a thousand chargers of silver , nine and twenty knives , 1 : 10 Thirty basons of gold , silver basons of a second sort four hundred and ten , and other vessels a thousand .
1 : 11 All the vessels of gold and of silver were five thousand and four hundred .
2 : 68 And some of the chief of the fathers , when they came to the house of the LORD which is at Jerusalem , offered freely for the house of God to set it up in his place : 2 : 69 They gave after their ability unto the treasure of the work threescore and one thousand drams of gold , and five thousand pound of silver , and one hundred priests ' garments .
5 : 14 And the vessels also of gold and silver of the house of God , which Nebuchadnezzar took out of the temple that was in Jerusalem , and brought them into the temple of Babylon , those did Cyrus the king take out of the temple of Babylon , and they were delivered unto one , whose name was Sheshbazzar , whom he had made governor ; 5 : 15 And said unto him , Take these vessels , go , carry them into the temple that is in Jerusalem , and let the house of God be builded in his place .
6 : 2 And there was found at Achmetha , in the palace that is in the province of the Medes , a roll , and therein was a record thus written : 6 : 3 In the first year of Cyrus the king the same Cyrus the king made a decree concerning the house of God at Jerusalem , Let the house be builded , the place where they offered sacrifices , and let the foundations thereof be strongly laid ; the height thereof threescore cubits , and the breadth thereof threescore cubits ; 6 : 4 With three rows of great stones , and a row of new timber : and let the expenses be given out of the king ' s house : 6 : 5 And also let the golden and silver vessels of the house of God , which Nebuchadnezzar took forth out of the temple which is at Jerusalem , and brought unto Babylon , be restored , and brought again unto the temple which is at Jerusalem , every one to his place , and place them in the house of God .
7 : 14 Forasmuch as thou art sent of the king , and of his seven counsellors , to enquire concerning Judah and Jerusalem , according to the law of thy God which is in thine hand ; 7 : 15 And to carry the silver and gold , which the king and his counsellors have freely offered unto the God of Israel , whose habitation is in Jerusalem , 7 : 16 And all the silver and gold that thou canst find in all the province of Babylon , with the freewill offering of the people , and of the priests , offering willingly for the house of their God which is in Jerusalem : 7 : 17 That thou mayest buy speedily with this money bullocks , rams , lambs , with their meat offerings and their drink offerings , and offer them upon the altar of the house of your God which is in Jerusalem .
7 : 18 And whatsoever shall seem good to thee , and to thy brethren , to do with the rest of the silver and the gold , that do after the will of your God .
7 : 21 And I , even I Artaxerxes the king , do make a decree to all the treasurers which are beyond the river , that whatsoever Ezra the priest , the scribe of the law of the God of heaven , shall require of you , it be done speedily , 7 : 22 Unto an hundred talents of silver , and to an hundred measures of wheat , and to an hundred baths of wine , and to an hundred baths of oil , and salt without prescribing how much .
8 : 24 Then I separated twelve of the chief of the priests , Sherebiah , Hashabiah , and ten of their brethren with them , 8 : 25 And weighed unto them the silver , and the gold , and the vessels , even the offering of the house of our God , which the king , and his counsellors , and his lords , and all Israel there present , had offered : 8 : 26 I even weighed unto their hand six hundred and fifty talents of silver , and silver vessels an hundred talents , and of gold an hundred talents ; 8 : 27 Also twenty basons of gold , of a thousand drams ; and two vessels of fine copper , precious as gold .
8 : 28 And I said unto them , Ye are holy unto the LORD ; the vessels are holy also ; and the silver and the gold are a freewill offering unto the LORD God of your fathers .
8 : 30 So took the priests and the Levites the weight of the silver , and the gold , and the vessels , to bring them to Jerusalem unto the house of our God .
8 : 33 Now on the fourth day was the silver and the gold and the vessels weighed in the house of our God by the hand of Meremoth the son of Uriah the priest ; and with him was Eleazar the son of Phinehas ; and with them was Jozabad the son of Jeshua , and Noadiah the son of Binnui , Levites ; 8 : 34 By number and by weight of every one : and all the weight was written at that time .
5 : 15 But the former governors that had been before me were chargeable unto the people , and had taken of them bread and wine , beside forty shekels of silver ; yea , even their servants bare rule over the people : but so did not I , because of the fear of God .
7 : 71 And some of the chief of the fathers gave to the treasure of the work twenty thousand drams of gold , and two thousand and two hundred pound of silver .
7 : 72 And that which the rest of the people gave was twenty thousand drams of gold , and two thousand pound of silver , and threescore and seven priests ' garments .
1 : 5 And when these days were expired , the king made a feast unto all the people that were present in Shushan the palace , both unto great and small , seven days , in the court of the garden of the king ' s palace ; 1 : 6 Where were white , green , and blue , hangings , fastened with cords of fine linen and purple to silver rings and pillars of marble : the beds were of gold and silver , upon a pavement of red , and blue , and white , and black , marble .
3 : 9 If it please the king , let it be written that they may be destroyed : and I will pay ten thousand talents of silver to the hands of those that have the charge of the business , to bring it into the king ' s treasuries .
3 : 11 And the king said unto Haman , The silver is given to thee , the people also , to do with them as it seemeth good to thee .
3 : 13 For now should I have lain still and been quiet , I should have slept : then had I been at rest , 3 : 14 With kings and counsellors of the earth , which build desolate places for themselves ; 3 : 15 Or with princes that had gold , who filled their houses with silver : 3 : 16 Or as an hidden untimely birth I had not been ; as infants which never saw light .
22 : 25 Yea , the Almighty shall be thy defence , and thou shalt have plenty of silver .
27 : 16 Though he heap up silver as the dust , and prepare raiment as the clay ; 27 : 17 He may prepare it , but the just shall put it on , and the innocent shall divide the silver .
28 : 1 Surely there is a vein for the silver , and a place for gold where they fine it .
28 : 15 It cannot be gotten for gold , neither shall silver be weighed for the price thereof .
12 : 6 The words of the LORD are pure words : as silver tried in a furnace of earth , purified seven times .
66 : 10 For thou , O God , hast proved us : thou hast tried us , as silver is tried .
68 : 13 Though ye have lien among the pots , yet shall ye be as the wings of a dove covered with silver , and her feathers with yellow gold .
68 : 30 Rebuke the company of spearmen , the multitude of the bulls , with the calves of the people , till every one submit himself with pieces of silver : scatter thou the people that delight in war .
105 : 37 He brought them forth also with silver and gold : and there was not one feeble person among their tribes .
115 : 4 Their idols are silver and gold , the work of men ' s hands .
119 : 72 The law of thy mouth is better unto me than thousands of gold and silver .
135 : 15 The idols of the heathen are silver and gold , the work of men ' s hands .
2 : 1 My son , if thou wilt receive my words , and hide my commandments with thee ; 2 : 2 So that thou incline thine ear unto wisdom , and apply thine heart to understanding ; 2 : 3 Yea , if thou criest after knowledge , and liftest up thy voice for understanding ; 2 : 4 If thou seekest her as silver , and searchest for her as for hid treasures ; 2 : 5 Then shalt thou understand the fear of the LORD , and find the knowledge of God .
3 : 14 For the merchandise of it is better than the merchandise of silver , and the gain thereof than fine gold .
8 : 10 Receive my instruction , and not silver ; and knowledge rather than choice gold .
8 : 19 My fruit is better than gold , yea , than fine gold ; and my revenue than choice silver .
10 : 20 The tongue of the just is as choice silver : the heart of the wicked is little worth .
and to get understanding rather to be chosen than silver !
17 : 3 The fining pot is for silver , and the furnace for gold : but the LORD trieth the hearts .
22 : 1 A GOOD name is rather to be chosen than great riches , and loving favour rather than silver and gold .
25 : 4 Take away the dross from the silver , and there shall come forth a vessel for the finer .
25 : 11 A word fitly spoken is like apples of gold in pictures of silver .
26 : 23 Burning lips and a wicked heart are like a potsherd covered with silver dross .
27 : 21 As the fining pot for silver , and the furnace for gold ; so is a man to his praise .
2 : 4 I made me great works ; I builded me houses ; I planted me vineyards : 2 : 5 I made me gardens and orchards , and I planted trees in them of all kind of fruits : 2 : 6 I made me pools of water , to water therewith the wood that bringeth forth trees : 2 : 7 I got me servants and maidens , and had servants born in my house ; also I had great possessions of great and small cattle above all that were in Jerusalem before me : 2 : 8 I gathered me also silver and gold , and the peculiar treasure of kings and of the provinces : I gat me men singers and women singers , and the delights of the sons of men , as musical instruments , and that of all sorts .
5 : 10 He that loveth silver shall not be satisfied with silver ; nor he that loveth abundance with increase : this is also vanity .
12 : 1 Remember now thy Creator in the days of thy youth , while the evil days come not , nor the years draw nigh , when thou shalt say , I have no pleasure in them ; 12 : 2 While the sun , or the light , or the moon , or the stars , be not darkened , nor the clouds return after the rain : 12 : 3 In the day when the keepers of the house shall tremble , and the strong men shall bow themselves , and the grinders cease because they are few , and those that look out of the windows be darkened , 12 : 4 And the doors shall be shut in the streets , when the sound of the grinding is low , and he shall rise up at the voice of the bird , and all the daughters of musick shall be brought low ; 12 : 5 Also when they shall be afraid of that which is high , and fears shall be in the way , and the almond tree shall flourish , and the grasshopper shall be a burden , and desire shall fail : because man goeth to his long home , and the mourners go about the streets : 12 : 6 Or ever the silver cord be loosed , or the golden bowl be broken , or the pitcher be broken at the fountain , or the wheel broken at the cistern .
1 : 11 We will make thee borders of gold with studs of silver .
3 : 10 He made the pillars thereof of silver , the bottom thereof of gold , the covering of it of purple , the midst thereof being paved with love , for the daughters of Jerusalem .
8 : 9 If she be a wall , we will build upon her a palace of silver : and if she be a door , we will inclose her with boards of cedar .
8 : 11 Solomon had a vineyard at Baalhamon ; he let out the vineyard unto keepers ; every one for the fruit thereof was to bring a thousand pieces of silver .
1 : 22 Thy silver is become dross , thy wine mixed with water : 1 : 23 Thy princes are rebellious , and companions of thieves : every one loveth gifts , and followeth after rewards : they judge not the fatherless , neither doth the cause of the widow come unto them .
2 : 7 Their land also is full of silver and gold , neither is there any end of their treasures ; their land is also full of horses , neither is there any end of their chariots : 2 : 8 Their land also is full of idols ; they worship the work of their own hands , that which their own fingers have made : 2 : 9 And the mean man boweth down , and the great man humbleth himself : therefore forgive them not .
2 : 20 In that day a man shall cast his idols of silver , and his idols of gold , which they made each one for himself to worship , to the moles and to the bats ; 2 : 21 To go into the clefts of the rocks , and into the tops of the ragged rocks , for fear of the LORD , and for the glory of his majesty , when he ariseth to shake terribly the earth .
13 : 17 Behold , I will stir up the Medes against them , which shall not regard silver ; and as for gold , they shall not delight in it .
30 : 22 Ye shall defile also the covering of thy graven images of silver , and the ornament of thy molten images of gold : thou shalt cast them away as a menstruous cloth ; thou shalt say unto it , Get thee hence .
31 : 7 For in that day every man shall cast away his idols of silver , and his idols of gold , which your own hands have made unto you for a sin .
39 : 2 And Hezekiah was glad of them , and shewed them the house of his precious things , the silver , and the gold , and the spices , and the precious ointment , and all the house of his armour , and all that was found in his treasures : there was nothing in his house , nor in all his dominion , that Hezekiah shewed them not .
40 : 19 The workman melteth a graven image , and the goldsmith spreadeth it over with gold , and casteth silver chains .
46 : 6 They lavish gold out of the bag , and weigh silver in the balance , and hire a goldsmith ; and he maketh it a god : they fall down , yea , they worship .
48 : 10 Behold , I have refined thee , but not with silver ; I have chosen thee in the furnace of affliction .
60 : 9 Surely the isles shall wait for me , and the ships of Tarshish first , to bring thy sons from far , their silver and their gold with them , unto the name of the LORD thy God , and to the Holy One of Israel , because he hath glorified thee .
60 : 17 For brass I will bring gold , and for iron I will bring silver , and for wood brass , and for stones iron : I will also make thy officers peace , and thine exactors righteousness .
6 : 30 Reprobate silver shall men call them , because the LORD hath rejected them .
10 : 4 They deck it with silver and with gold ; they fasten it with nails and with hammers , that it move not .
10 : 9 Silver spread into plates is brought from Tarshish , and gold from Uphaz , the work of the workman , and of the hands of the founder : blue and purple is their clothing : they are all the work of cunning men .
32 : 9 And I bought the field of Hanameel my uncle ' s son , that was in Anathoth , and weighed him the money , even seventeen shekels of silver .
52 : 19 And the basons , and the firepans , and the bowls , and the caldrons , and the candlesticks , and the spoons , and the cups ; that which was of gold in gold , and that which was of silver in silver , took the captain of the guard away .
7 : 19 They shall cast their silver in the streets , and their gold shall be removed : their silver and their gold shall not be able to deliver them in the day of the wrath of the LORD : they shall not satisfy their souls , neither fill their bowels : because it is the stumblingblock of their iniquity .
16 : 13 Thus wast thou decked with gold and silver ; and thy raiment was of fine linen , and silk , and broidered work ; thou didst eat fine flour , and honey , and oil : and thou wast exceeding beautiful , and thou didst prosper into a kingdom .
16 : 17 Thou hast also taken thy fair jewels of my gold and of my silver , which I had given thee , and madest to thyself images of men , and didst commit whoredom with them , 16 : 18 And tookest thy broidered garments , and coveredst them : and thou hast set mine oil and mine incense before them .
22 : 17 And the word of the LORD came unto me , saying , 22 : 18 Son of man , the house of Israel is to me become dross : all they are brass , and tin , and iron , and lead , in the midst of the furnace ; they are even the dross of silver .
22 : 20 As they gather silver , and brass , and iron , and lead , and tin , into the midst of the furnace , to blow the fire upon it , to melt it ; so will I gather you in mine anger and in my fury , and I will leave you there , and melt you .
22 : 22 As silver is melted in the midst of the furnace , so shall ye be melted in the midst thereof ; and ye shall know that I the LORD have poured out my fury upon you .
27 : 12 Tarshish was thy merchant by reason of the multitude of all kind of riches ; with silver , iron , tin , and lead , they traded in thy fairs .
28 : 1 The word of the LORD came again unto me , saying , 28 : 2 Son of man , say unto the prince of Tyrus , Thus saith the Lord GOD ; Because thine heart is lifted up , and thou hast said , I am a God , I sit in the seat of God , in the midst of the seas ; yet thou art a man , and not God , though thou set thine heart as the heart of God : 28 : 3 Behold , thou art wiser than Daniel ; there is no secret that they can hide from thee : 28 : 4 With thy wisdom and with thine understanding thou hast gotten thee riches , and hast gotten gold and silver into thy treasures : 28 : 5 By thy great wisdom and by thy traffick hast thou increased thy riches , and thine heart is lifted up because of thy riches : 28 : 6 Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD ; Because thou hast set thine heart as the heart of God ; 28 : 7 Behold , therefore I will bring strangers upon thee , the terrible of the nations : and they shall draw their swords against the beauty of thy wisdom , and they shall defile thy brightness .
to carry away silver and gold , to take away cattle and goods , to take a great spoil ?
2 : 32 This image ' s head was of fine gold , his breast and his arms of silver , his belly and his thighs of brass , 2 : 33 His legs of iron , his feet part of iron and part of clay .
2 : 35 Then was the iron , the clay , the brass , the silver , and the gold , broken to pieces together , and became like the chaff of the summer threshingfloors ; and the wind carried them away , that no place was found for them : and the stone that smote the image became a great mountain , and filled the whole earth .
2 : 45 Forasmuch as thou sawest that the stone was cut out of the mountain without hands , and that it brake in pieces the iron , the brass , the clay , the silver , and the gold ; the great God hath made known to the king what shall come to pass hereafter : and the dream is certain , and the interpretation thereof sure .
5 : 2 Belshazzar , whiles he tasted the wine , commanded to bring the golden and silver vessels which his father Nebuchadnezzar had taken out of the temple which was in Jerusalem ; that the king , and his princes , his wives , and his concubines , might drink therein .
5 : 4 They drank wine , and praised the gods of gold , and of silver , of brass , of iron , of wood , and of stone .
5 : 22 And thou his son , O Belshazzar , hast not humbled thine heart , though thou knewest all this ; 5 : 23 But hast lifted up thyself against the Lord of heaven ; and they have brought the vessels of his house before thee , and thou , and thy lords , thy wives , and thy concubines , have drunk wine in them ; and thou hast praised the gods of silver , and gold , of brass , iron , wood , and stone , which see not , nor hear , nor know : and the God in whose hand thy breath is , and whose are all thy ways , hast thou not glorified : 5 : 24 Then was the part of the hand sent from him ; and this writing was written .
11 : 7 But out of a branch of her roots shall one stand up in his estate , which shall come with an army , and shall enter into the fortress of the king of the north , and shall deal against them , and shall prevail : 11 : 8 And shall also carry captives into Egypt their gods , with their princes , and with their precious vessels of silver and of gold ; and he shall continue more years than the king of the north .
11 : 38 But in his estate shall he honour the God of forces : and a god whom his fathers knew not shall he honour with gold , and silver , and with precious stones , and pleasant things .
11 : 43 But he shall have power over the treasures of gold and of silver , and over all the precious things of Egypt : and the Libyans and the Ethiopians shall be at his steps .
2 : 8 For she did not know that I gave her corn , and wine , and oil , and multiplied her silver and gold , which they prepared for Baal .
3 : 2 So I bought her to me for fifteen pieces of silver , and for an homer of barley , and an half homer of barley : 3 : 3 And I said unto her , Thou shalt abide for me many days ; thou shalt not play the harlot , and thou shalt not be for another man : so will I also be for thee .
8 : 4 They have set up kings , but not by me : they have made princes , and I knew it not : of their silver and their gold have they made them idols , that they may be cut off .
9 : 6 For , lo , they are gone because of destruction : Egypt shall gather them up , Memphis shall bury them : the pleasant places for their silver , nettles shall possess them : thorns shall be in their tabernacles .
13 : 2 And now they sin more and more , and have made them molten images of their silver , and idols according to their own understanding , all of it the work of the craftsmen : they say of them , Let the men that sacrifice kiss the calves .
and if ye recompense me , swiftly and speedily will I return your recompence upon your own head ; 3 : 5 Because ye have taken my silver and my gold , and have carried into your temples my goodly pleasant things : 3 : 6 The children also of Judah and the children of Jerusalem have ye sold unto the Grecians , that ye might remove them far from their border .
2 : 6 Thus saith the LORD ; For three transgressions of Israel , and for four , I will not turn away the punishment thereof ; because they sold the righteous for silver , and the poor for a pair of shoes ; 2 : 7 That pant after the dust of the earth on the head of the poor , and turn aside the way of the meek : and a man and his father will go in unto the same maid , to profane my holy name : 2 : 8 And they lay themselves down upon clothes laid to pledge by every altar , and they drink the wine of the condemned in the house of their god .
8 : 6 That we may buy the poor for silver , and the needy for a pair of shoes ; yea , and sell the refuse of the wheat ?
2 : 9 Take ye the spoil of silver , take the spoil of gold : for there is none end of the store and glory out of all the pleasant furniture .
Behold , it is laid over with gold and silver , and there is no breath at all in the midst of it .
1 : 11 Howl , ye inhabitants of Maktesh , for all the merchant people are cut down ; all they that bear silver are cut off .
1 : 18 Neither their silver nor their gold shall be able to deliver them in the day of the LORD ' s wrath ; but the whole land shall be devoured by the fire of his jealousy : for he shall make even a speedy riddance of all them that dwell in the land .
2 : 8 The silver is mine , and the gold is mine , saith the LORD of hosts .
6 : 9 And the word of the LORD came unto me , saying , 6 : 10 Take of them of the captivity , even of Heldai , of Tobijah , and of Jedaiah , which are come from Babylon , and come thou the same day , and go into the house of Josiah the son of Zephaniah ; 6 : 11 Then take silver and gold , and make crowns , and set them upon the head of Joshua the son of Josedech , the high priest ; 6 : 12 And speak unto him , saying , Thus speaketh the LORD of hosts , saying , Behold the man whose name is The BRANCH ; and he shall grow up out of his place , and he shall build the temple of the LORD : 6 : 13 Even he shall build the temple of the LORD ; and he shall bear the glory , and shall sit and rule upon his throne ; and he shall be a priest upon his throne : and the counsel of peace shall be between them both .
9 : 3 And Tyrus did build herself a strong hold , and heaped up silver as the dust , and fine gold as the mire of the streets .
So they weighed for my price thirty pieces of silver .
And I took the thirty pieces of silver , and cast them to the potter in the house of the LORD .
13 : 9 And I will bring the third part through the fire , and will refine them as silver is refined , and will try them as gold is tried : they shall call on my name , and I will hear them : I will say , It is my people : and they shall say , The LORD is my God .
14 : 14 And Judah also shall fight at Jerusalem ; and the wealth of all the heathen round about shall be gathered together , gold , and silver , and apparel , in great abundance .
for he is like a refiner ' s fire , and like fullers ' soap : 3 : 3 And he shall sit as a refiner and purifier of silver : and he shall purify the sons of Levi , and purge them as gold and silver , that they may offer unto the LORD an offering in righteousness .
10 : 9 Provide neither gold , nor silver , nor brass in your purses , 10 : 10 Nor scrip for your journey , neither two coats , neither shoes , nor yet staves : for the workman is worthy of his meat .
And they covenanted with him for thirty pieces of silver .
27 : 3 Then Judas , which had betrayed him , when he saw that he was condemned , repented himself , and brought again the thirty pieces of silver to the chief priests and elders , 27 : 4 Saying , I have sinned in that I have betrayed the innocent blood .
27 : 5 And he cast down the pieces of silver in the temple , and departed , and went and hanged himself .
27 : 6 And the chief priests took the silver pieces , and said , It is not lawful for to put them into the treasury , because it is the price of blood .
27 : 9 Then was fulfilled that which was spoken by Jeremy the prophet , saying , And they took the thirty pieces of silver , the price of him that was valued , whom they of the children of Israel did value ; 27 : 10 And gave them for the potter ' s field , as the Lord appointed me .
15 : 8 Either what woman having ten pieces of silver , if she lose one piece , doth not light a candle , and sweep the house , and seek diligently till she find it ?
3 : 6 Then Peter said , Silver and gold have I none ; but such as I have give I thee : In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth rise up and walk .
17 : 29 Forasmuch then as we are the offspring of God , we ought not to think that the Godhead is like unto gold , or silver , or stone , graven by art and man ' s device .
19 : 19 Many of them also which used curious arts brought their books together , and burned them before all men : and they counted the price of them , and found it fifty thousand pieces of silver .
19 : 24 For a certain man named Demetrius , a silversmith , which made silver shrines for Diana , brought no small gain unto the craftsmen ; 19 : 25 Whom he called together with the workmen of like occupation , and said , Sirs , ye know that by this craft we have our wealth .
20 : 33 I have coveted no man ' s silver , or gold , or apparel .
3 : 12 Now if any man build upon this foundation gold , silver , precious stones , wood , hay , stubble ; 3 : 13 Every man ' s work shall be made manifest : for the day shall declare it , because it shall be revealed by fire ; and the fire shall try every man ' s work of what sort it is .
2 : 20 But in a great house there are not only vessels of gold and of silver , but also of wood and of earth ; and some to honour , and some to dishonour .
5 : 3 Your gold and silver is cankered ; and the rust of them shall be a witness against you , and shall eat your flesh as it were fire .
1 : 17 And if ye call on the Father , who without respect of persons judgeth according to every man ' s work , pass the time of your sojourning here in fear : 1 : 18 Forasmuch as ye know that ye were not redeemed with corruptible things , as silver and gold , from your vain conversation received by tradition from your fathers ; 1 : 19 But with the precious blood of Christ , as of a lamb without blemish and without spot : 1 : 20 Who verily was foreordained before the foundation of the world , but was manifest in these last times for you , 1 : 21 Who by him do believe in God , that raised him up from the dead , and gave him glory ; that your faith and hope might be in God .
9 : 20 And the rest of the men which were not killed by these plagues yet repented not of the works of their hands , that they should not worship devils , and idols of gold , and silver , and brass , and stone , and of wood : which neither can see , nor hear , nor walk : 9 : 21 Neither repented they of their murders , nor of their sorceries , nor of their fornication , nor of their thefts .
18 : 11 And the merchants of the earth shall weep and mourn over her ; for no man buyeth their merchandise any more : 18 : 12 The merchandise of gold , and silver , and precious stones , and of pearls , and fine linen , and purple , and silk , and scarlet , and all thyine wood , and all manner vessels of ivory , and all manner vessels of most precious wood , and of brass , and iron , and marble , 18 : 13 And cinnamon , and odours , and ointments , and frankincense , and wine , and oil , and fine flour , and wheat , and beasts , and sheep , and horses , and chariots , and slaves , and souls of men .
I ' ll shade him from the heat till he can bear To lean in joy upon our Father ' s knee ; And then I ' ll stand and stroke his silver hair , And be like him , and he will then love me .
Or wilt thou go ask the Mole : Can Wisdom be put in a silver rod ?
She ceasd & smild in tears , then sat down in her silver shrine .
When he looked down at himself , as far as he could look , he saw that he was all hung with gold and silver chains !
There were strings of white fluffy stuff drooping around him ; his twigs held little gold nuts and pink , rosy balls and silver stars ; he had pretty little pink and white candles in his arms ; but last , and most wonderful of all , the children hung a beautiful white , floating doll - angel over his head !
That evening the palace was all trimmed with the most beautiful flowers you can imagine , and rows and rows of little silver bells , that tinkled when the wind blew in , and hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of wax candles , that shone like tiny stars .
Inside was an artificial bird , something like a Nightingale , only it was made of gold , and silver , and rubies , and emeralds , and diamonds .
A silver voice spoke in his ear : " The king of the land has a right to do good , but not evil ; you have been guilty of bad temper and of cruelty to - day ; see that you do better to - morrow ."
Her beautiful face was stern , and her silver voice rang like a trumpet , as she said , " Wicked and selfish prince , you have become baser than the beasts you hunt ; you are furious as a lion , revengeful as a serpent , greedy as a wolf , and brutal as a bull ; take , therefore , the shape of those beasts whom you resemble !"
The flying ship of Professor Lucifer sang through the skies like a silver arrow ; the bleak white steel of it , gleaming in the bleak blue emptiness of the evening .
But then again in that damnable darkness there began to grow a strange dawn as of grey and pale silver .
From the Cross from which he had fallen fell the shadow of its fantastic mercy ; and the first three words he spoke in a voice like a silver trumpet , held men as still as stones .
" Give me his hat ," said Turnbull in a silver voice , that the other obeyed like a bugle .
The darkness in the east had been broken with a bar of grey ; the bar of grey was split with a sword of silver and morning lifted itself laboriously over London .
Evan MacIan came out the next morning into the little garden to a fresh silver day , his long face looking more austere than ever in that cold light , his eyelids a little heavy .
Morning broke in bitter silver along the grey and level plain ; and almost as it did so Turnbull and MacIan came out of a low , scrubby wood on to the empty and desolate flats .
The silver moonlight picked out a piece or two of pewter ornament on his blue uniform ; and as they went by they knew it was a sergeant of police .
MacIan glanced again at that silver anklet of sea - water and then looked beyond at the next promontory round which a deep sea was boiling and leaping .
A rainy twilight was clearing to cold silver over the moaning sea , when the battered boat that had rolled and drifted almost aimlessly all night , came within sight of land , though of land which looked almost as lost and savage as the waves .
It was therefore with legitimate excitement that one rainy morning after daybreak they saw that distinct shape of a solitary island standing up against the encircling strip of silver which ran round the skyline and separated the grey and green of the billows from the grey and mauve of the morning clouds .
MacIan looked at the silver sunset that was closing in , barred by plumy lines of purple cloud ; he looked at the high tree - tops that caught the last light and at the birds going heavily homeward , just as if all these things were bits of written advice that he could read .
It hangs in the sky quite solid and quite silver and quite useless ; it is one huge celestial snowball .
The next moment the thing drove right across the moon , and from being silver upon blue , suddenly became black upon silver ; then although it passed the field of light in a flash its outline was unmistakable though eccentric .
" I suppose you can take me to the war ," he said , and the silent silver figure only bowed its head again .
MacIan clambered into the silver boat , and it rose upward to the stars .
But against this black background there sprang up , picked out in glittering silver , a dome and a cross .
It seemed that it was really newly covered with silver , which in the strong moonlight was like white flame .
The dome had been redecorated so as to give it a more solemn and somewhat more ecclesiastical note ; the ball was draped or destroyed , and round the gallery , under the cross , ran what looked like a ring of silver statues , like the little leaden images that stood round the hat of Louis XI .
When they came closer he saw that they were figures in complete armour of steel or silver , each with a naked sword , point upward ; and then he saw one of the swords move .
For he could imagine nothing that so echoed his own visions of pontifical or chivalric art as this white dome sitting like a vast silver tiara over London , ringed with a triple crown of swords .
Then he bent his silver head over his notes once more , and said , without looking up again :
MacIan , I say , will remember this tender and transparent evening , partly because of its virgin gold and silver , and partly because he passed beneath it through the most horrible instant of his life .
Across the clear space of cold silver and a pale lemon sky which was left by the gap in the ilex - trees there passed a slim , dark figure , a profile and the poise of a dark head like a bird ' s , which really pinned him to his seat with the point of coincidence .
Father Brown put down the small silver fish and the fork and stared across at his companion .
His hair was silver - grey , but he did not look old ; it was worn longer than the common yet he did not look effeminate ; it was curly but it did not look curled .
His grey gloves were a shade bluer , his silver - knobbed cane a shade longer than scores of such gloves and canes flapped and flourished about the theatres and the restaurants .
But he remained composed ; and never took his eye off the patch of flame which had begun by spreading , but now seemed to shrink a little as it hissed under the torch of the long silver spear of water .
IT was one of those chilly and empty afternoons in early winter , when the daylight is silver rather than gold and pewter rather than silver .
A light fall of snow had half - melted into a few strips , also looking leaden rather than silver , when it had been fixed again by the seal of frost ; no fresh snow had fallen , but a ribbon of the old snow ran along the very margin of the coast , so as to parallel the pale ribbon of the foam .
Then the grey sky - line brightened into silver , and in the broadening light he realized that he had been to the house which belonged to an Anglo - Indian Major named Putnam ; and that the Major had a native cook from Malta who was of his communion .
At last he spoke , spluttering : " All the silver gone !"
Even the old silver cream - jug gone .
" They are all at me here that the fellow was only after the silver -- as if I shouldn ' t be only too pleased to think so !
He threw the cruet in the dustbin -- where I found it , along with other silver -- for the sake of a burglary blind .
They wore dull - black gowns like his own , but they had not the frosty silver on the hair , nor the frost - bitten refinement of the features .
" The moon had risen in strengthening silver , and the sky showed in stripes of bright , nocturnal blue between the black stripes of the pines about the castle .
Otto of Grossenmark lay very peacefully among the fairy trees , and would do no more harm either with gold or steel ; only the silver pencil of the moon would pick out and trace here and there the intricate ornament of his uniform , or the old wrinkles on his brow .
At the end of the passage was a door , which Buttons opened sharply , showing a sudden blue and silver picture of the moonlit river , that looked like a scene in a theatre .
It broke like the splitting of great bars of lead , showing bars of silver ; and these had brightened like white fire when the tug , changing its onward course , turned inward to a large landing stage rather beyond Charing Cross .
The snow - flakes tormented him like a swarm of silver bees .
It had fallen accidentally , but just so fallen as to half drape the dome from its very topmost point , and to pick out in perfect silver the great orb and the cross .
and he knocked the tumbler off the table , making a crash of glass and a splash of silver fluid .
Early as was the hour , the sun soaked everything in warmth , and Syme was vaguely surprised to see so many spring flowers burning gold and silver in the tall grass in which the whole company stood almost knee - deep .
By this time the afternoon sun was slanting westward , and by its rays Syme could see the sturdy figure of the old innkeeper growing smaller and smaller , but still standing and looking after them quite silently , the sunshine in his silver hair .
He saw above the foremost saddle the silver gleam of a sword , and then as it grew nearer the silver gleam of an old man ' s hair .
His advance was very quiet ; but for the silver frost upon his head , he might have been one to the shadows of the wood .
When the carriages eventually rolled up to a large , low , cavernous gateway , another man in the same uniform , but wearing a silver star on the grey breast of his coat , came out to meet them .
Gogol , or Tuesday , had his simplicity well symbolised by a dress designed upon the division of the waters , a dress that separated upon his forehead and fell to his feet , grey and silver , like a sheet of rain .
He was draped plainly , in a pure and terrible white , and his hair was like a silver flame on his forehead .
So he sent over the silver coins and others of little value , and apologized for his not having mentioned them before , by saying that he considered them as mere rubbish .
So the wife opened an old glove , and took out two shillings ; and the man , as she opened the glove , put in his fingers , and took out a little silver penny .
I have -- let me -- see -- stones , two shillings ; then five days ' work -- that ' s five sixpences , that ' s two shillings and sixpence ; in all , makes four shillings and sixpence ; and my silver penny , is four and sevenpence -- four and sevenpence !"
I saw in the manger a hat full of silver ."
After a considerable pause he added , " I answer for it he ' d never miss half a crown out of all that silver ."
Here she quite opened her large hand , and on the palm of it appeared Jem ' s silver penny .
But now Jem ' s mistress called to her through the window , begging her to stop , and joining in his entreaties to know how she came by the silver penny .
" Yes , I don ' t doubt it ," said the lady , impatiently ; " but about the silver penny ?"
" Here , now , ma ' am , just sticking , as it were here , between the blade and the haft , was the silver penny .
He put on a bold , insolent countenance , till he heard Lawrence ' s confession ; till the money was found upon him ; and he heard the milk - woman declare that she would swear to the silver penny which he had dropped .
At every door they gave silver .
" Is anyone here amongst yourselves a judge of silver ?"
Then to Susan , to screen himself from manifest danger , for the attorney ' s son looked upon him with a vengeful mien , " But here ' s Susan here , who understands silver a great deal better than I do ; she takes a power of it for bread , you know ."
Why ," continued he , turning to the harper , " I ask your pardon for speaking out so free before strangers in praise of my own , which I know is not mannerly ; but the truth is the fittest thing to be spoken , as I think , at all times ; therefore , here ' s your good health , Susan ; why , by - and - by she ' ll be worth her weight in gold -- in silver at least .
Whilst she was gone , a footman in a livery , laced with silver , who belonged to the coach that stood at the shop door , as he was lounging with one of his companions , chanced to spy the weaving pillow , which she had left upon a stone before the door .
She got up gently , and was retiring into the house , when the silver laced footman stopped her , saying , insolently , " Sit still , child ."
The carriage was at the door -- Laura came running to call her ; her father ' s voice was heard at the same instant ; so she was obliged to go down with her basket but half wrapped up in silver paper -- a circumstance at which she was a good deal disconcerted ; for the pleasure of surprising Bell would be utterly lost if one bit of the filigree should peep out before the proper time .
said she , with increased vehemence , when , after drawing aside the veil of silver paper , she saw him grasp the myrtle wreathed handle .
" Mr . Mansfield , Oppidan , white , purple , and orange dress , trimmed with silver ; rich satin bag , purple and silver : each carrying elegant poles , with gold and silver cord .
" Mr . Keity , yellow and black velvet ; helmet trimmed with silver .
" Mr . Tomkins , violet and silver ; helmet .
" Mr . Thackery , lilac and silver ; Roman Cap .
" Mr . Routh , pink and silver , Spanish hat .
But , in my humble opinion , ma ' m , the marshal ' s white and purple and orange fancy dress , trimmed with silver , will bear the bell ; though , indeed , I shouldn ' t say that ,-- for the colonel ' s and lieutenant ' s , and ensign ' s , are beautiful in the extreme .
And , to be sure , nothing could be better imagined than Mr . Marlborough ' s lilac and silver , with a Roman cap .
Silver won ' t do for so many ; gold is what must cross my hand ."
The bracelet was plaited in the neatest manner by Caroline , finished round the edge with silver twist , and on it was worked , in the smallest silver letters , this motto , " TO THE MOST AMIABLE ."
It fastened with little silver clasps , and as it was made large enough for the eldest girls , it was too large for the youngest .
" Yes , miss , the very same ," replied the peddler , who , during this time , had been examining the little box out of which Cecilia had taken her money -- it was of silver .
Whilst Louisa was speaking ," continued Mrs . Villars , " I saw this silver box lying on the bed .
Piedro ' s mouth was much too full to make an immediate reply , nor did his father wait for any , but darting his hand into the youth ' s pocket , pulled forth a handful of silver .
Paintings of great value , besides ornaments of gold and silver , antique bracelets , rings , etc ., are from time to time found amongst these ruins , and therefore it is necessary that no person should be admitted whose honesty cannot be depended upon .
The servants we might corrupt ; but even the old proverb of ' Angle with a silver hook ,' * won ' t hold good with him ."
Why did the poor poet of Tennessee , upon suddenly receiving two handfuls of silver , deliberate whether to buy him a coat , which he sadly needed , or invest his money in a pedestrian trip to Rockaway Beach ?
With anxious grapnels I had sounded my pocket , and only brought up a few pieces of silver ,-- So , wherever you go , Ishmael , said I to myself , as I stood in the middle of a dreary street shouldering my bag , and comparing the gloom towards the north with the darkness towards the south -- wherever in your wisdom you may conclude to lodge for the night , my dear Ishmael , be sure to inquire the price , and don ' t be too particular .
But high above the flying scud and dark - rolling clouds , there floated a little isle of sunlight , from which beamed forth an angel ' s face ; and this bright face shed a distinct spot of radiance upon the ship ' s tossed deck , something like that silver plate now inserted into the Victory ' s plank where Nelson fell .
He made me a present of his embalmed head ; took out his enormous tobacco wallet , and groping under the tobacco , drew out some thirty dollars in silver ; then spreading them on the table , and mechanically dividing them into two equal portions , pushed one of them towards me , and said it was mine .
Nothing about the silver calabash he spat into ?
This circumstance , coupled with his ambiguous , half - hinting , half - revealing , shrouded sort of talk , now begat in me all kinds of vague wonderments and half - apprehensions , and all connected with the Pequod ; and Captain Ahab ; and the leg he had lost ; and the Cape Horn fit ; and the silver calabash ; and what Captain Peleg had said of him , when I left the ship the day previous ; and the prediction of the squaw Tistig ; and the voyage we had bound ourselves to sail ; and a hundred other shadowy things .
The flashing cascade of his mane , the curving comet of his tail , invested him with housings more resplendent than gold and silver - beaters could have furnished him .
Start her -- start her , my silver - spoons !
It was while gliding through these latter waters that one serene and moonlight night , when all the waves rolled by like scrolls of silver ; and , by their soft , suffusing seethings , made what seemed a silvery silence , not a solitude ; on such a silent night a silvery jet was seen far in advance of the white bubbles at the bow .
But , at last , when turning to the eastward , the Cape winds began howling around us , and we rose and fell upon the long , troubled seas that are there ; when the ivory - tusked Pequod sharply bowed to the blast , and gored the dark waves in her madness , till , like showers of silver chips , the foam - flakes flew over her bulwarks ; then all this desolate vacuity of life went away , but gave place to sights more dismal than before .
" Why , do ye see , the old man is hard bent after that White Whale , and the devil there is trying to come round him , and get him to swap away his silver watch , or his soul , or something of that sort , and then he ' ll surrender Moby Dick ."
Sometimes they are polished with soapstone and sand , till they shine within like silver punch - bowls .
My father , in old Tolland county , cut down a pine tree once , and found a silver ring grown over in it ; some old darkey ' s wedding ring .
The place he found beyond expression bright , Compared with aught on earth , metal or stone ; Not all parts like , but all alike informed With radiant light , as glowing iron with fire ; If metal , part seemed gold , part silver clear ; If stone , carbuncle most or chrysolite , Ruby or topaz , to the twelve that shone In Aaron ' s breast - plate , and a stone besides Imagined rather oft than elsewhere seen , That stone , or like to that which here below Philosophers in vain so long have sought , In vain , though by their powerful art they bind Volatile Hermes , and call up unbound In various shapes old Proteus from the sea , Drained through a limbeck to his native form .
But first he casts to change his proper shape , Which else might work him danger or delay : And now a stripling Cherub he appears , Not of the prime , yet such as in his face Youth smiled celestial , and to every limb Suitable grace diffused , so well he feigned : Under a coronet his flowing hair In curls on either cheek played ; wings he wore Of many a coloured plume , sprinkled with gold ; His habit fit for speed succinct , and held Before his decent steps a silver wand .
Now came still Evening on , and Twilight gray Had in her sober livery all things clad ; Silence accompanied ; for beast and bird , They to their grassy couch , these to their nests Were slunk , all but the wakeful nightingale ; She all night long her amorous descant sung ; Silence was pleased : Now glowed the firmament With living sapphires : Hesperus , that led The starry host , rode brightest , till the moon , Rising in clouded majesty , at length Apparent queen unveiled her peerless light , And o ' er the dark her silver mantle threw .
Mean while the tepid caves , and fens , and shores , Their brood as numerous hatch , from the egg that soon Bursting with kindly rupture forth disclosed Their callow young ; but feathered soon and fledge They summed their pens ; and , soaring the air sublime , With clang despised the ground , under a cloud In prospect ; there the eagle and the stork On cliffs and cedar tops their eyries build : Part loosely wing the region , part more wise In common , ranged in figure , wedge their way , Intelligent of seasons , and set forth Their aery caravan , high over seas Flying , and over lands , with mutual wing Easing their flight ; so steers the prudent crane Her annual voyage , borne on winds ; the air Floats as they pass , fanned with unnumbered plumes : From branch to branch the smaller birds with song Solaced the woods , and spread their painted wings Till even ; nor then the solemn nightingale Ceased warbling , but all night tun ' d her soft lays : Others , on silver lakes and rivers , bathed Their downy breast ; the swan with arched neck , Between her white wings mantling proudly , rows Her state with oary feet ; yet oft they quit The dank , and , rising on stiff pennons , tower The mid aereal sky : Others on ground Walked firm ; the crested cock whose clarion sounds The silent hours , and the other whose gay train Adorns him , coloured with the florid hue Of rainbows and starry eyes .
By the city ' s quadrangular houses -- in log huts , camping with lumber - men , Along the ruts of the turnpike , along the dry gulch and rivulet bed , Weeding my onion - patch or hosing rows of carrots and parsnips , crossing savannas , trailing in forests , Prospecting , gold - digging , girdling the trees of a new purchase , Scorch ' d ankle - deep by the hot sand , hauling my boat down the shallow river , Where the panther walks to and fro on a limb overhead , where the buck turns furiously at the hunter , Where the rattlesnake suns his flabby length on a rock , where the otter is feeding on fish , Where the alligator in his tough pimples sleeps by the bayou , Where the black bear is searching for roots or honey , where the beaver pats the mud with his paddle - shaped tall ; Over the growing sugar , over the yellow - flower ' d cotton plant , over the rice in its low moist field , Over the sharp - peak ' d farm house , with its scallop ' d scum and slender shoots from the gutters , Over the western persimmon , over the long - leav ' d corn , over the delicate blue - flower flax , Over the white and brown buckwheat , a hummer and buzzer there with the rest , Over the dusky green of the rye as it ripples and shades in the breeze ; Scaling mountains , pulling myself cautiously up , holding on by low scragged limbs , Walking the path worn in the grass and beat through the leaves of the brush , Where the quail is whistling betwixt the woods and the wheat - lot , Where the bat flies in the Seventh - month eve , where the great goldbug drops through the dark , Where the brook puts out of the roots of the old tree and flows to the meadow , Where cattle stand and shake away flies with the tremulous shuddering of their hides , Where the cheese - cloth hangs in the kitchen , where andirons straddle the hearth - slab , where cobwebs fall in festoons from the rafters ; Where trip - hammers crash , where the press is whirling its cylinders , Wherever the human heart beats with terrible throes under its ribs , Where the pear - shaped balloon is floating aloft , ( floating in it myself and looking composedly down ,) Where the life - car is drawn on the slip - noose , where the heat hatches pale - green eggs in the dented sand , Where the she - whale swims with her calf and never forsakes it , Where the steam - ship trails hind - ways its long pennant of smoke , Where the fin of the shark cuts like a black chip out of the water , Where the half - burn ' d brig is riding on unknown currents , Where shells grow to her slimy deck , where the dead are corrupting below ; Where the dense - starr ' d flag is borne at the head of the regiments , Approaching Manhattan up by the long - stretching island , Under Niagara , the cataract falling like a veil over my countenance , Upon a door - step , upon the horse - block of hard wood outside , Upon the race - course , or enjoying picnics or jigs or a good game of base - ball , At he - festivals , with blackguard gibes , ironical license , bull - dances , drinking , laughter , At the cider - mill tasting the sweets of the brown mash , sucking the juice through a straw , At apple - peelings wanting kisses for all the red fruit I find , At musters , beach - parties , friendly bees , huskings , house - raisings ; Where the mocking - bird sounds his delicious gurgles , cackles , screams , weeps , Where the hay - rick stands in the barn - yard , where the dry - stalks are scatter ' d , where the brood - cow waits in the hovel , Where the bull advances to do his masculine work , where the stud to the mare , where the cock is treading the hen , Where the heifers browse , where geese nip their food with short jerks , Where sun - down shadows lengthen over the limitless and lonesome prairie , Where herds of buffalo make a crawling spread of the square miles far and near , Where the humming - bird shimmers , where the neck of the long - lived swan is curving and winding , Where the laughing - gull scoots by the shore , where she laughs her near - human laugh , Where bee - hives range on a gray bench in the garden half hid by the high weeds , Where band - neck ' d partridges roost in a ring on the ground with their heads out , Where burial coaches enter the arch ' d gates of a cemetery , Where winter wolves bark amid wastes of snow and icicled trees , Where the yellow - crown ' d heron comes to the edge of the marsh at night and feeds upon small crabs , Where the splash of swimmers and divers cools the warm noon , Where the katy - did works her chromatic reed on the walnut - tree over the well , Through patches of citrons and cucumbers with silver - wired leaves , Through the salt - lick or orange glade , or under conical firs , Through the gymnasium , through the curtain ' d saloon , through the office or public hall ; Pleas ' d with the native and pleas ' d with the foreign , pleas ' d with the new and old , Pleas ' d with the homely woman as well as the handsome , Pleas ' d with the quakeress as she puts off her bonnet and talks melodiously , Pleas ' d with the tune of the choir of the whitewash ' d church , Pleas ' d with the earnest words of the sweating Methodist preacher , impress ' d seriously at the camp - meeting ; Looking in at the shop - windows of Broadway the whole forenoon , flatting the flesh of my nose on the thick plate glass , Wandering the same afternoon with my face turn ' d up to the clouds , or down a lane or along the beach , My right and left arms round the sides of two friends , and I in the middle ; Coming home with the silent and dark - cheek ' d bush - boy , ( behind me he rides at the drape of the day ,) Far from the settlements studying the print of animals ' feet , or the moccasin print , By the cot in the hospital reaching lemonade to a feverish patient , Nigh the coffin ' d corpse when all is still , examining with a candle ; Voyaging to every port to dicker and adventure , Hurrying with the modern crowd as eager and fickle as any , Hot toward one I hate , ready in my madness to knife him , Solitary at midnight in my back yard , my thoughts gone from me a long while , Walking the old hills of Judaea with the beautiful gentle God by my side , Speeding through space , speeding through heaven and the stars , Speeding amid the seven satellites and the broad ring , and the diameter of eighty thousand miles , Speeding with tail ' d meteors , throwing fire - balls like the rest , Carrying the crescent child that carries its own full mother in its belly , Storming , enjoying , planning , loving , cautioning , Backing and filling , appearing and disappearing , I tread day and night such roads .
Always Florida ' s green peninsula -- always the priceless delta of Louisiana -- always the cotton - fields of Alabama and Texas , Always California ' s golden hills and hollows , and the silver mountains of New Mexico -- always soft - breath ' d Cuba , Always the vast slope drain ' d by the Southern sea , inseparable with the slopes drain ' d by the Eastern and Western seas , The area the eighty - third year of these States , the three and a half millions of square miles , The eighteen thousand miles of sea - coast and bay - coast on the main , the thirty thousand miles of river navigation , The seven millions of distinct families and the same number of dwellings -- always these , and more , branching forth into numberless branches , Always the free range and diversity -- always the continent of Democracy ; Always the prairies , pastures , forests , vast cities , travelers , Kanada , the snows ; Always these compact lands tied at the hips with the belt stringing the huge oval lakes ; Always the West with strong native persons , the increasing density there , the habitans , friendly , threatening , ironical , scorning invaders ; All sights , South , North , East -- all deeds , promiscuously done at all times , All characters , movements , growths , a few noticed , myriads unnoticed , Through Mannahatta ' s streets I walking , these things gathering , On interior rivers by night in the glare of pine knots , steamboats wooding up , Sunlight by day on the valley of the Susquehanna , and on the valleys of the Potomac and Rappahannock , and the valleys of the Roanoke and Delaware , In their northerly wilds beasts of prey haunting the Adirondacks the hills , or lapping the Saginaw waters to drink , In a lonesome inlet a sheldrake lost from the flock , sitting on the water rocking silently , In farmers ' barns oxen in the stable , their harvest labor done , they rest standing , they are too tired , Afar on arctic ice the she - walrus lying drowsily while her cubs play around , The hawk sailing where men have not yet sail ' d , the farthest polar sea , ripply , crystalline , open , beyond the floes , White drift spooning ahead where the ship in the tempest dashes , On solid land what is done in cities as the bells strike midnight together , In primitive woods the sounds there also sounding , the howl of the wolf , the scream of the panther , and the hoarse bellow of the elk , In winter beneath the hard blue ice of Moosehead lake , in summer visible through the clear waters , the great trout swimming , In lower latitudes in warmer air in the Carolinas the large black buzzard floating slowly high beyond the tree tops , Below , the red cedar festoon ' d with tylandria , the pines and cypresses growing out of the white sand that spreads far and flat , Rude boats descending the big Pedee , climbing plants , parasites with color ' d flowers and berries enveloping huge trees , The waving drapery on the live - oak trailing long and low , noiselessly waved by the wind , The camp of Georgia wagoners just after dark , the supper - fires and the cooking and eating by whites and negroes , Thirty or forty great wagons , the mules , cattle , horses , feeding from troughs , The shadows , gleams , up under the leaves of the old sycamore - trees , the flames with the black smoke from the pitch - pine curling and rising ; Southern fishermen fishing , the sounds and inlets of North Carolina ' s coast , the shad - fishery and the herring - fishery , the large sweep - seines , the windlasses on shore work ' d by horses , the clearing , curing , and packing - houses ; Deep in the forest in piney woods turpentine dropping from the incisions in the trees , there are the turpentine works , There are the negroes at work in good health , the ground in all directions is cover ' d with pine straw ; In Tennessee and Kentucky slaves busy in the coalings , at the forge , by the furnace - blaze , or at the corn - shucking , In Virginia , the planter ' s son returning after a long absence , joyfully welcom ' d and kiss ' d by the aged mulatto nurse , On rivers boatmen safely moor ' d at nightfall in their boats under shelter of high banks , Some of the younger men dance to the sound of the banjo or fiddle , others sit on the gunwale smoking and talking ; Late in the afternoon the mocking - bird , the American mimic , singing in the Great Dismal Swamp , There are the greenish waters , the resinous odor , the plenteous moss , the cypress - tree , and the juniper - tree ; Northward , young men of Mannahatta , the target company from an excursion returning home at evening , the musket - muzzles all bear bunches of flowers presented by women ; Children at play , or on his father ' s lap a young boy fallen asleep , ( how his lips move !
Mark , thy interminable farms , North , South , Thy wealthy daughter - states , Eastern and Western , The varied products of Ohio , Pennsylvania , Missouri , Georgia , Texas , and the rest , Thy limitless crops , grass , wheat , sugar , oil , corn , rice , hemp , hops , Thy barns all fill ' d , the endless freight - train and the bulging store - house , The grapes that ripen on thy vines , the apples in thy orchards , Thy incalculable lumber , beef , pork , potatoes , thy coal , thy gold and silver , The inexhaustible iron in thy mines .
World take good notice , silver stars fading , Milky hue ript , wet of white detaching , Coals thirty - eight , baleful and burning , Scarlet , significant , hands off warning , Now and henceforth flaunt from these shores .
I cease from my song for thee , From my gaze on thee in the west , fronting the west , communing with thee , O comrade lustrous with silver face in the night .
Again old heart so gay , again to you , your sense , the full flush spring returning , Again the freshness and the odors , again Virginia ' s summer sky , pellucid blue and silver , Again the forenoon purple of the hills , Again the deathless grass , so noiseless soft and green , Again the blood - red roses blooming .
Shot gold , maroon and violet , dazzling silver , emerald , fawn , The earth ' s whole amplitude and Nature ' s multiform power consign ' d for once to colors ; The light , the general air possess ' d by them -- colors till now unknown , No limit , confine -- not the Western sky alone -- the high meridian -- North , South , all , Pure luminous color fighting the silent shadows to the last .
