The cold , however , was severe ; and by the time the second carriage was in motion , a few flakes of snow were finding their way down , and the sky had the appearance of being so overcharged as to want only a milder air to produce a very white world in a very short time .
I am sure I must have been as white as my gown .
The quarter of an hour brought her punctually to the white gate again ; and Miss Smith receiving her summons , was with her without delay , and unattended by any alarming young man .
I have some notion of putting such a trimming as this to my white and silver poplin .
Harriet looked white and frightened , and he was trying to cheer her .-- The iron gates and the front - door were not twenty yards asunder ;-- they were all three soon in the hall , and Harriet immediately sinking into a chair fainted away .
These were pleasant feelings , and she walked about and indulged them till it was necessary to do as the others did , and collect round the strawberry - beds .-- The whole party were assembled , excepting Frank Churchill , who was expected every moment from Richmond ; and Mrs . Elton , in all her apparatus of happiness , her large bonnet and her basket , was very ready to lead the way in gathering , accepting , or talking -- strawberries , and only strawberries , could now be thought or spoken of .--" The best fruit in England -- every body ' s favourite -- always wholesome .-- These the finest beds and finest sorts .-- Delightful to gather for one ' s self -- the only way of really enjoying them .-- Morning decidedly the best time -- never tired -- every sort good -- hautboy infinitely superior -- no comparison -- the others hardly eatable -- hautboys very scarce -- Chili preferred -- white wood finest flavour of all -- price of strawberries in London -- abundance about Bristol -- Maple Grove -- cultivation -- beds when to be renewed -- gardeners thinking exactly different -- no general rule -- gardeners never to be put out of their way -- delicious fruit -- only too rich to be eaten much of -- inferior to cherries -- currants more refreshing -- only objection to gathering strawberries the stooping -- glaring sun -- tired to death -- could bear it no longer -- must go and sit in the shade ."
The wedding was very much like other weddings , where the parties have no taste for finery or parade ; and Mrs . Elton , from the particulars detailed by her husband , thought it all extremely shabby , and very inferior to her own .--" Very little white satin , very few lace veils ; a most pitiful business !-- Selina would stare when she heard of it ."
" He is a rear admiral of the white .
Lady Russell , convinced that Anne would not be allowed to be of any use , or any importance , in the choice of the house which they were going to secure , was very unwilling to have her hurried away so soon , and wanted to make it possible for her to stay behind till she might convey her to Bath herself after Christmas ; but having engagements of her own which must take her from Kellynch for several weeks , she was unable to give the full invitation she wished , and Anne though dreading the possible heats of September in all the white glare of Bath , and grieving to forego all the influence so sweet and so sad of the autumnal months in the country , did not think that , everything considered , she wished to remain .
They were come to Bath for a few days with Mrs Musgrove , and were at the White Hart .
They all three called in Rivers Street for a couple of minutes ; but Anne convinced herself that a day ' s delay of the intended communication could be of no consequence , and hastened forward to the White Hart , to see again the friends and companions of the last autumn , with an eagerness of good - will which many associations contributed to form .
When she reached the White Hart , and made her way to the proper apartment , she found herself neither arriving quite in time , nor the first to arrive .
Last night after tea , when you and mama went out of the room , they were whispering and talking together as fast as could be , and he seemed to be begging something of her , and presently he took up her scissors and cut off a long lock of her hair , for it was all tumbled down her back ; and he kissed it , and folded it up in a piece of white paper ; and put it into his pocket - book ."
Marianne , now looking dreadfully white , and unable to stand , sunk into her chair , and Elinor , expecting every moment to see her faint , tried to screen her from the observation of others , while reviving her with lavender water .
The idea of Edward ' s being a clergyman , and living in a small parsonage - house , diverted him beyond measure ;-- and when to that was added the fanciful imagery of Edward reading prayers in a white surplice , and publishing the banns of marriage between John Smith and Mary Brown , he could conceive nothing more ridiculous .
Well , at last , as I need not tell you , you were forced on me ; and what a sweet figure I cut !-- what an evening of agony it was !-- Marianne , beautiful as an angel on one side , calling me Willoughby in such a tone !-- Oh , God !-- holding out her hand to me , asking me for an explanation , with those bewitching eyes fixed in such speaking solicitude on my face !-- and Sophia , jealous as the devil on the other hand , looking all that was -- Well , it does not signify ; it is over now .-- Such an evening !-- I ran away from you all as soon as I could ; but not before I had seen Marianne ' s sweet face as white as death .-- THAT was the last , last look I ever had of her ;-- the last manner in which she appeared to me .
His complexion was white with agitation , and he looked as if fearful of his reception , and conscious that he merited no kind one .
30 : 35 And he removed that day the he goats that were ringstraked and spotted , and all the she goats that were speckled and spotted , and every one that had some white in it , and all the brown among the sheep , and gave them into the hand of his sons .
30 : 37 And Jacob took him rods of green poplar , and of the hazel and chesnut tree ; and pilled white strakes in them , and made the white appear which was in the rods .
40 : 16 When the chief baker saw that the interpretation was good , he said unto Joseph , I also was in my dream , and , behold , I had three white baskets on my head : 40 : 17 And in the uppermost basket there was of all manner of bakemeats for Pharaoh ; and the birds did eat them out of the basket upon my head .
49 : 11 Binding his foal unto the vine , and his ass ' s colt unto the choice vine ; he washed his garments in wine , and his clothes in the blood of grapes : 49 : 12 His eyes shall be red with wine , and his teeth white with milk .
16 : 31 And the house of Israel called the name thereof Manna : and it was like coriander seed , white ; and the taste of it was like wafers made with honey .
13 : 1 And the LORD spake unto Moses and Aaron , saying , 13 : 2 When a man shall have in the skin of his flesh a rising , a scab , or bright spot , and it be in the skin of his flesh like the plague of leprosy ; then he shall be brought unto Aaron the priest , or unto one of his sons the priests : 13 : 3 And the priest shall look on the plague in the skin of the flesh : and when the hair in the plague is turned white , and the plague in sight be deeper than the skin of his flesh , it is a plague of leprosy : and the priest shall look on him , and pronounce him unclean .
13 : 4 If the bright spot be white in the skin of his flesh , and in sight be not deeper than the skin , and the hair thereof be not turned white ; then the priest shall shut up him that hath the plague seven days : 13 : 5 And the priest shall look on him the seventh day : and , behold , if the plague in his sight be at a stay , and the plague spread not in the skin ; then the priest shall shut him up seven days more : 13 : 6 And the priest shall look on him again the seventh day : and , behold , if the plague be somewhat dark , and the plague spread not in the skin , the priest shall pronounce him clean : it is but a scab : and he shall wash his clothes , and be clean .
13 : 9 When the plague of leprosy is in a man , then he shall be brought unto the priest ; 13 : 10 And the priest shall see him : and , behold , if the rising be white in the skin , and it have turned the hair white , and there be quick raw flesh in the rising ; 13 : 11 It is an old leprosy in the skin of his flesh , and the priest shall pronounce him unclean , and shall not shut him up : for he is unclean .
13 : 12 And if a leprosy break out abroad in the skin , and the leprosy cover all the skin of him that hath the plague from his head even to his foot , wheresoever the priest looketh ; 13 : 13 Then the priest shall consider : and , behold , if the leprosy have covered all his flesh , he shall pronounce him clean that hath the plague : it is all turned white : he is clean .
13 : 16 Or if the raw flesh turn again , and be changed unto white , he shall come unto the priest ; 13 : 17 And the priest shall see him : and , behold , if the plague be turned into white ; then the priest shall pronounce him clean that hath the plague : he is clean .
13 : 18 The flesh also , in which , even in the skin thereof , was a boil , and is healed , 13 : 19 And in the place of the boil there be a white rising , or a bright spot , white , and somewhat reddish , and it be shewed to the priest ; 13 : 20 And if , when the priest seeth it , behold , it be in sight lower than the skin , and the hair thereof be turned white ; the priest shall pronounce him unclean : it is a plague of leprosy broken out of the boil .
13 : 21 But if the priest look on it , and , behold , there be no white hairs therein , and if it be not lower than the skin , but be somewhat dark ; then the priest shall shut him up seven days : 13 : 22 And if it spread much abroad in the skin , then the priest shall pronounce him unclean : it is a plague .
13 : 24 Or if there be any flesh , in the skin whereof there is a hot burning , and the quick flesh that burneth have a white bright spot , somewhat reddish , or white ; 13 : 25 Then the priest shall look upon it : and , behold , if the hair in the bright spot be turned white , and it be in sight deeper than the skin ; it is a leprosy broken out of the burning : wherefore the priest shall pronounce him unclean : it is the plague of leprosy .
13 : 26 But if the priest look on it , and , behold , there be no white hair in the bright spot , and it be no lower than the other skin , but be somewhat dark ; then the priest shall shut him up seven days : 13 : 27 And the priest shall look upon him the seventh day : and if it be spread much abroad in the skin , then the priest shall pronounce him unclean : it is the plague of leprosy .
13 : 38 If a man also or a woman have in the skin of their flesh bright spots , even white bright spots ; 13 : 39 Then the priest shall look : and , behold , if the bright spots in the skin of their flesh be darkish white ; it is a freckled spot that groweth in the skin ; he is clean .
13 : 42 And if there be in the bald head , or bald forehead , a white reddish sore ; it is a leprosy sprung up in his bald head , or his bald forehead .
13 : 43 Then the priest shall look upon it : and , behold , if the rising of the sore be white reddish in his bald head , or in his bald forehead , as the leprosy appeareth in the skin of the flesh ; 13 : 44 He is a leprous man , he is unclean : the priest shall pronounce him utterly unclean ; his plague is in his head .
12 : 10 And the cloud departed from off the tabernacle ; and , behold , Miriam became leprous , white as snow : and Aaron looked upon Miriam , and , behold , she was leprous .
5 : 10 Speak , ye that ride on white asses , ye that sit in judgment , and walk by the way .
And he went out from his presence a leper as white as snow .
5 : 11 And it came to pass , when the priests were come out of the holy place : ( for all the priests that were present were sanctified , and did not then wait by course : 5 : 12 Also the Levites which were the singers , all of them of Asaph , of Heman , of Jeduthun , with their sons and their brethren , being arrayed in white linen , having cymbals and psalteries and harps , stood at the east end of the altar , and with them an hundred and twenty priests sounding with trumpets :) 5 : 13 It came even to pass , as the trumpeters and singers were as one , to make one sound to be heard in praising and thanking the LORD ; and when they lifted up their voice with the trumpets and cymbals and instruments of musick , and praised the LORD , saying , For he is good ; for his mercy endureth for ever : that then the house was filled with a cloud , even the house of the LORD ; 5 : 14 So that the priests could not stand to minister by reason of the cloud : for the glory of the LORD had filled the house of God .
1 : 5 And when these days were expired , the king made a feast unto all the people that were present in Shushan the palace , both unto great and small , seven days , in the court of the garden of the king ' s palace ; 1 : 6 Where were white , green , and blue , hangings , fastened with cords of fine linen and purple to silver rings and pillars of marble : the beds were of gold and silver , upon a pavement of red , and blue , and white , and black , marble .
8 : 15 And Mordecai went out from the presence of the king in royal apparel of blue and white , and with a great crown of gold , and with a garment of fine linen and purple : and the city of Shushan rejoiced and was glad .
or is there any taste in the white of an egg ?
68 : 14 When the Almighty scattered kings in it , it was white as snow in Salmon .
9 : 8 Let thy garments be always white ; and let thy head lack no ointment .
5 : 10 My beloved is white and ruddy , the chiefest among ten thousand .
1 : 18 Come now , and let us reason together , saith the LORD : though your sins be as scarlet , they shall be as white as snow ; though they be red like crimson , they shall be as wool .
27 : 18 Damascus was thy merchant in the multitude of the wares of thy making , for the multitude of all riches ; in the wine of Helbon , and white wool .
7 : 9 I beheld till the thrones were cast down , and the Ancient of days did sit , whose garment was white as snow , and the hair of his head like the pure wool : his throne was like the fiery flame , and his wheels as burning fire .
11 : 35 And some of them of understanding shall fall , to try them , and to purge , and to make them white , even to the time of the end : because it is yet for a time appointed .
12 : 10 Many shall be purified , and made white , and tried ; but the wicked shall do wickedly : and none of the wicked shall understand ; but the wise shall understand .
1 : 7 He hath laid my vine waste , and barked my fig tree : he hath made it clean bare , and cast it away ; the branches thereof are made white .
1 : 7 Upon the four and twentieth day of the eleventh month , which is the month Sebat , in the second year of Darius , came the word of the LORD unto Zechariah , the son of Berechiah , the son of Iddo the prophet , saying , 1 : 8 I saw by night , and behold a man riding upon a red horse , and he stood among the myrtle trees that were in the bottom ; and behind him were there red horses , speckled , and white .
6 : 2 In the first chariot were red horses ; and in the second chariot black horses ; 6 : 3 And in the third chariot white horses ; and in the fourth chariot grisled and bay horses .
6 : 6 The black horses which are therein go forth into the north country ; and the white go forth after them ; and the grisled go forth toward the south country .
5 : 36 Neither shalt thou swear by thy head , because thou canst not make one hair white or black .
17 : 1 And after six days Jesus taketh Peter , James , and John his brother , and bringeth them up into an high mountain apart , 17 : 2 And was transfigured before them : and his face did shine as the sun , and his raiment was white as the light .
28 : 3 His countenance was like lightning , and his raiment white as snow : 28 : 4 And for fear of him the keepers did shake , and became as dead men .
9 : 3 And his raiment became shining , exceeding white as snow ; so as no fuller on earth can white them .
16 : 5 And entering into the sepulchre , they saw a young man sitting on the right side , clothed in a long white garment ; and they were affrighted .
9 : 29 And as he prayed , the fashion of his countenance was altered , and his raiment was white and glistering .
behold , I say unto you , Lift up your eyes , and look on the fields ; for they are white already to harvest .
20 : 11 But Mary stood without at the sepulchre weeping : and as she wept , she stooped down , and looked into the sepulchre , 20 : 12 And seeth two angels in white sitting , the one at the head , and the other at the feet , where the body of Jesus had lain .
1 : 10 And while they looked stedfastly toward heaven as he went up , behold , two men stood by them in white apparel ; 1 : 11 Which also said , Ye men of Galilee , why stand ye gazing up into heaven ?
1 : 14 His head and his hairs were white like wool , as white as snow ; and his eyes were as a flame of fire ; 1 : 15 And his feet like unto fine brass , as if they burned in a furnace ; and his voice as the sound of many waters .
2 : 17 He that hath an ear , let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches ; To him that overcometh will I give to eat of the hidden manna , and will give him a white stone , and in the stone a new name written , which no man knoweth saving he that receiveth it .
3 : 4 Thou hast a few names even in Sardis which have not defiled their garments ; and they shall walk with me in white : for they are worthy .
3 : 5 He that overcometh , the same shall be clothed in white raiment ; and I will not blot out his name out of the book of life , but I will confess his name before my Father , and before his angels .
3 : 17 Because thou sayest , I am rich , and increased with goods , and have need of nothing ; and knowest not that thou art wretched , and miserable , and poor , and blind , and naked : 3 : 18 I counsel thee to buy of me gold tried in the fire , that thou mayest be rich ; and white raiment , that thou mayest be clothed , and that the shame of thy nakedness do not appear ; and anoint thine eyes with eyesalve , that thou mayest see .
4 : 4 And round about the throne were four and twenty seats : and upon the seats I saw four and twenty elders sitting , clothed in white raiment ; and they had on their heads crowns of gold .
6 : 2 And I saw , and behold a white horse : and he that sat on him had a bow ; and a crown was given unto him : and he went forth conquering , and to conquer .
6 : 11 And white robes were given unto every one of them ; and it was said unto them , that they should rest yet for a little season , until their fellowservants also and their brethren , that should be killed as they were , should be fulfilled .
7 : 9 After this I beheld , and , lo , a great multitude , which no man could number , of all nations , and kindreds , and people , and tongues , stood before the throne , and before the Lamb , clothed with white robes , and palms in their hands ; 7 : 10 And cried with a loud voice , saying , Salvation to our God which sitteth upon the throne , and unto the Lamb .
7 : 13 And one of the elders answered , saying unto me , What are these which are arrayed in white robes ?
And he said to me , These are they which came out of great tribulation , and have washed their robes , and made them white in the blood of the Lamb .
14 : 14 And I looked , and behold a white cloud , and upon the cloud one sat like unto the Son of man , having on his head a golden crown , and in his hand a sharp sickle .
15 : 5 And after that I looked , and , behold , the temple of the tabernacle of the testimony in heaven was opened : 15 : 6 And the seven angels came out of the temple , having the seven plagues , clothed in pure and white linen , and having their breasts girded with golden girdles .
19 : 8 And to her was granted that she should be arrayed in fine linen , clean and white : for the fine linen is the righteousness of saints .
19 : 11 And I saw heaven opened , and behold a white horse ; and he that sat upon him was called Faithful and True , and in righteousness he doth judge and make war .
19 : 14 And the armies which were in heaven followed him upon white horses , clothed in fine linen , white and clean .
20 : 11 And I saw a great white throne , and him that sat on it , from whose face the earth and the heaven fled away ; and there was found no place for them .
Old John , with white hair , Does laugh away care , Sitting under the oak , Among the old folk .
My mother bore me in the southern wild , And I am black , but oh my soul is white !
White as an angel is the English child , But I am black , as if bereaved of light .
When I from black and he from white cloud free , And round the tent of God like lambs we joy
never mind it , for , when your head ' s bare , You know that the soot cannot spoil your white hair ."
Then naked and white , all their bags left behind , They rise upon clouds , and sport in the wind ; And the Angel told Tom , if he ' d be a good boy , He ' d have God for his father , and never want joy .
The little boy lost in the lonely fen , Led by the wandering light , Began to cry , but God , ever nigh , Appeared like his father , in white .
' Twas on a Holy Thursday , their innocent faces clean , Came children walking two and two , in read , and blue , and green : Grey - headed beadles walked before , with wands as white as snow , Till into the high dome of Paul ' s they like Thames waters flow .
Little lamb , Here I am ; Come and lick My white neck ; Let me pull Your soft wool ; Let me kiss Your soft face ; Merrily , merrily , to welcome in the year .
The modest Rose puts forth a thorn , The humble sheep a threat ' ning horn : While the Lily white shall in love delight , Nor a thorn nor a threat stain her beauty bright .
To her father white Came the maiden bright ; But his loving look , Like the holy book All her tender limbs with terror shook .
The daughter of beauty wip ' d her pitying tears with her white veil , And said , Alas !
But all the animals were asleep , and nobody at all looked at Little Jack Rollaround except an old White Owl ; and all she said was , " Who are you ?"
"' A few days more , and I drop the white petals down among the grass , and , lo !
Wee folk , good folk , Trooping all together ; Green jacket , red cap , And white owl ' s feather !
With a bridge of white mist Columbkill he crosses , On his stately journeys From Slieveleague to Rosses ; Or going up with music On cold starry nights , To sup with the Queen Of the gay Northern Lights .
Wee folk , good folk , Trooping all together ; Green jacket , red cap , And white owl ' s feather !
In the winter the white snow fell softly , softly , and covered the great trees all over with wonderful caps and coats of white .
Then some pretty ladies , with white caps on their heads and white aprons over their blue dresses , came bringing little parcels .
There were strings of white fluffy stuff drooping around him ; his twigs held little gold nuts and pink , rosy balls and silver stars ; he had pretty little pink and white candles in his arms ; but last , and most wonderful of all , the children hung a beautiful white , floating doll - angel over his head !
They came up to the Little Fir Tree and quickly lighted all the little pink and white candles .
The Little Fir Tree had a sudden sight of a long room with many little white beds in it , of children propped up on pillows in the beds , and of other children in great wheeled chairs , and others hobbling about or sitting in little chairs .
He wondered why all the little children looked so white and tired ; he did not know that he was in a hospital .
But before he could wonder any more his breath was quite taken away by the shout those little white children gave .
Wondering , Elsa stretched out her pretty , little , white hands .
Elsa sat and looked with wonder at her little white hands and the ten useless fingers .
The wife cut out two tiny , tiny coats of green , two weeny , weeny waistcoats of yellow , two little pairs of trousers , of white , two bits of caps , bright red ( for every one knows the elves love bright colours ), and her husband made two little pairs of shoes with long , pointed toes .
And then the way her fingers go ; They look so quick and white ,-- In and out , and to and fro , And braiding in the light , And it is always right .
They saw , like a white cloud rising from the lake , a flock of sea gulls flying toward them .
Snow - white in the sun , with great wings beating and soaring , in hundreds and hundreds , they rose and circled and came on .
The gulls flew overhead , with a shrill chorus of whimpering cries , and then , in a marvellous white cloud of outspread wings and hovering breasts , they settled down over the cultivated ground .
" Flowers ," said Margery , with shining eyes ,--" blue , and white , and yellow , and pink ,-- every kind of flower !"
Early the next morning , a man came driving up to the cottage with two strong white horses ; in his wagon was a plough .
Out past him rushed the figure of a man in tattered , scanty clothes , with unkempt hair and white , wild face .
She was clad in robes of dazzling white , and on her shining hair she wore a wreath of white roses .
And the terrible monster was changed into a pretty little white dog .
And instantly Prince Cherry was transformed into a little white dove .
He sought her in many lands , until one day , in a far eastern country , he found her sitting in a tent , by the side of an old , white - haired hermit .
At that instant , the white dove vanished , and Prince Cherry stood there , as handsome and charming as ever , and with a look of kindness and modesty in his eyes which had never been there before .
Whether they were for white children or black , for Jews , Catholics , or Protestants , made no difference ; for Margaret always said , " They are all orphans alike ."
He had not gone far when he met a white horse , and he saluted him .
" Would you make me a hole ," said the old white garraun , " where I could go in to hide whenever the people come to fetch me to the mill or the kiln , so that they won ' t see me ; for they tire me out doing work for them ?"
He brought his spade and shovel , and he made a hole , and he asked the old white horse to go down into it so that he could see if it would fit him .
The white horse went down into the hole , but when he tried to come up again , he was not able .
" Make a place for me now ," said the white horse , " by which I can come up out of the hole here , whenever I am hungry ."
The lion and the fox and the army of Dublin went on then , trying to catch the tailor , and they kept going until they came to the place where the old white garraun was , and the old white garraun told them that the tailor and his wife were there in the morning , and " Loose me ," said he ; " I am swifter than you , and I ' ll overtake them ."
They released the old white garraun then , and the old white garraun , the fox , the lion , and the army of Dublin pursued the tailor and his wife , and it was not long before they came up with them .
When the old white garraun saw the tailor sitting on the ground , he said , " That ' s the position he was in when he made the hole for me , that I couldn ' t get out of , when I went down into it .
Suddenly , out of the distance , something like a great butterfly , of white and gold , swept toward them .
As he looked up from his prayer , a white - robed angel stood in the path before him .
So she was considering in her own mind ( as well as she could , for the hot day made her feel very sleepy and stupid ), whether the pleasure of making a daisy - chain would be worth the trouble of getting up and picking the daisies , when suddenly a White Rabbit with pink eyes ran close by her .
Alice was not a bit hurt , and she jumped up on to her feet in a moment : she looked up , but it was all dark overhead ; before her was another long passage , and the White Rabbit was still in sight , hurrying down it .
It was the White Rabbit returning , splendidly dressed , with a pair of white kid gloves in one hand and a large fan in the other : he came trotting along in a great hurry , muttering to himself as he came , ' Oh !
Alice felt so desperate that she was ready to ask help of any one ; so , when the Rabbit came near her , she began , in a low , timid voice , ' If you please , sir --' The Rabbit started violently , dropped the white kid gloves and the fan , and skurried away into the darkness as hard as he could go .
As she said this she looked down at her hands , and was surprised to see that she had put on one of the Rabbit ' s little white kid gloves while she was talking .
It was the White Rabbit , trotting slowly back again , and looking anxiously about as it went , as if it had lost something ; and she heard it muttering to itself ' The Duchess !
Alice guessed in a moment that it was looking for the fan and the pair of white kid gloves , and she very good - naturedly began hunting about for them , but they were nowhere to be seen -- everything seemed to have changed since her swim in the pool , and the great hall , with the glass table and the little door , had vanished completely .
By this time she had found her way into a tidy little room with a table in the window , and on it ( as she had hoped ) a fan and two or three pairs of tiny white kid gloves : she took up the fan and a pair of the gloves , and was just going to leave the room , when her eye fell upon a little bottle that stood near the looking - glass .
' You are old , Father William ,' the young man said , ' And your hair has become very white ; And yet you incessantly stand on your head -- Do you think , at your age , it is right ?'
A large rose - tree stood near the entrance of the garden : the roses growing on it were white , but there were three gardeners at it , busily painting them red .
Two began in a low voice , ' Why the fact is , you see , Miss , this here ought to have been a RED rose - tree , and we put a white one in by mistake ; and if the Queen was to find it out , we should all have our heads cut off , you know .
Next came the guests , mostly Kings and Queens , and among them Alice recognised the White Rabbit : it was talking in a hurried nervous manner , smiling at everything that was said , and went by without noticing her .
She was walking by the White Rabbit , who was peeping anxiously into her face .
So Alice began telling them her adventures from the time when she first saw the White Rabbit .
The King and Queen of Hearts were seated on their throne when they arrived , with a great crowd assembled about them -- all sorts of little birds and beasts , as well as the whole pack of cards : the Knave was standing before them , in chains , with a soldier on each side to guard him ; and near the King was the White Rabbit , with a trumpet in one hand , and a scroll of parchment in the other .
Alice began in a loud , indignant voice , but she stopped hastily , for the White Rabbit cried out , ' Silence in the court !'
On this the White Rabbit blew three blasts on the trumpet , and then unrolled the parchment scroll , and read as follows :--
' Call the first witness ,' said the King ; and the White Rabbit blew three blasts on the trumpet , and called out , ' First witness !'
The King looked anxiously at the White Rabbit , who said in a low voice , ' Your Majesty must cross - examine THIS witness .'
Alice watched the White Rabbit as he fumbled over the list , feeling very curious to see what the next witness would be like , '-- for they haven ' t got much evidence YET ,' she said to herself .
Imagine her surprise , when the White Rabbit read out , at the top of his shrill little voice , the name ' Alice !'
They were just beginning to write this down on their slates , when the White Rabbit interrupted : ' UNimportant , your Majesty means , of course ,' he said in a very respectful tone , but frowning and making faces at him as he spoke .
' There ' s more evidence to come yet , please your Majesty ,' said the White Rabbit , jumping up in a great hurry ; ' this paper has just been picked up .'
' I haven ' t opened it yet ,' said the White Rabbit , ' but it seems to be a letter , written by the prisoner to -- to somebody .'
' It isn ' t directed at all ,' said the White Rabbit ; ' in fact , there ' s nothing written on the OUTSIDE .'
' No , they ' re not ,' said the White Rabbit , ' and that ' s the queerest thing about it .'
The White Rabbit put on his spectacles .
These were the verses the White Rabbit read :--
The long grass rustled at her feet as the White Rabbit hurried by -- the frightened Mouse splashed his way through the neighbouring pool -- she could hear the rattle of the teacups as the March Hare and his friends shared their never - ending meal , and the shrill voice of the Queen ordering off her unfortunate guests to execution -- once more the pig - baby was sneezing on the Duchess ' s knee , while plates and dishes crashed around it -- once more the shriek of the Gryphon , the squeaking of the Lizard ' s slate - pencil , and the choking of the suppressed guinea - pigs , filled the air , mixed up with the distant sobs of the miserable Mock Turtle .
The flying ship of Professor Lucifer sang through the skies like a silver arrow ; the bleak white steel of it , gleaming in the bleak blue emptiness of the evening .
He was an exceedingly holy man , almost entirely covered with white hair .
" You will forgive me ," said the monk , meekly from under loads of white beard , " but I fear I do not understand ; was it in order that I might rub my shoulder against men of all kinds that you put me inside this thing ?"
" I ' d do it again ," said the young man , with a furious white face .
When he came up to capture London , it was not with an army of white cockades , but with a stick and a satchel .
A row of half - burnished seventeenth - century swords ran like an ornate railing along the front of the window ; behind was a darker glimmer of old oak and old armour ; and higher up hung the most extraordinary looking South Sea tools or utensils , whether designed for killing enemies or merely for cooking them , no mere white man could possibly conjecture .
The brilliant light ran along the blades , filling the channels of them with white fire ; the combatants stuck their swords in the turf and took off their hats , coats , waistcoats , and boots .
The blades crossed again with the same sound like song , and the men went to work again with the same white and watchful faces .
Whenever Turnbull ' s sword sought to go over that other mere white streak it seemed to be caught in a complex network of steel .
MacIan leant his white and rather weary face back upon the cushions in order to speak up through the open door .
Yes , the papers were very interesting , and Mr . Turnbull unrolled a whole bundle of them for the amusement of Mr . MacIan as they sat on a high common to the north of London , in the coming of the white dawn .
From the spot where Turnbull and MacIan were sitting on one of the barren steeps behind Hampstead , they could see the whole of London shaping itself vaguely and largely in the grey and growing light , until the white sun stood over it and it lay at their feet , the splendid monstrosity that it is .
MacIan turned upon him with a white face and bitter lip .
Don ' t you dare to say one word , white or black , about it .
A negro in a white robe and turban appeared suddenly and silently behind them .
They imagined him to be occupied on some concerns in the interior of the house , and they waited for his emergence , stamping the garden in silence -- the garden of tall , fresh country flowers , in the midst of which the monstrous South Sea idol lifted itself as abruptly as the prow of a ship riding on a sea of red and white and gold .
They had explained and re - explained the Massacre of St . Bartholomew in little white lanes walled in with standing corn as with walls of gold .
The moonlight lay on the white road with a more naked and electric glare than on the grey - green upland , and though the scene which it revealed was complicated , it was not difficult to get its first features at a glance .
The white moonlight on the road , when he was not looking at it , gave him a vision of the road being white with snow .
The fact that the lady had a little fur at her throat ; the fact that the curve of her cheek was a low and lean curve and that the moonlight caught the height of her cheek - bone ; the fact that her hands were small but heavily gloved as they gripped the steering - wheel ; the fact that a white witch light was on the road ; the fact that the brisk breeze of their passage stirred and fluttered a little not only the brown hair of her head but the black fur on her cap .
MacIan sat motionless for a few moments and then turned up at his companion a face that was as white as the moon above it .
Then a white witch fire began to burn between the black stems of the fir - trees ; and , like so many things in nature , though not in books on evolution , the daybreak , when it did come , came much quicker than one would think .
The sea that lay before them was like a pavement of emerald , bright and almost brittle ; the sky against which its strict horizon hung was almost absolutely white , except that close to the sky line , like scarlet braids on the hem of a garment , lay strings of flaky cloud of so gleaming and gorgeous a red that they seemed cut out of some strange blood - red celestial metal , of which the mere gold of this earth is but a drab yellow imitation .
MacIan followed him round the corner and found himself in what was certainly an even finer fencing court , of flat , firm sand , enclosed on three sides by white walls of rock , and on the fourth by the green wall of the advancing sea .
Ten minutes afterwards he came back again , white with his own whirlwind of emotions ; Turnbull was quite cheerful and was knocking out the end of his pipe .
He had recently lost his wife , whom he had loved heartily and rather heavily in complete silence , and upon whose grave he was constantly in the habit of placing hideous little wreaths , made out of a sort of black - and - white beads .
The incomprehensible Count Gregory , with his yellow hair like flame and his face like the white ashes of the flame , was advancing bareheaded towards her , flinging out his arms and his long fingers with a frantic gesture .
A wash of weary daylight was breaking over the country - side , and the fields and roads were full of white mist -- the kind of white mist that clings in corners like cotton wool .
The white vapour lay , as it often does , in lean and palpable layers ; and even the head of the tree was above it in the half - daylight , like a green ship swinging on a sea of foam .
The nightmare of the stone horse was increased by the white fog , which seemed thicker inside the wall than outside .
Though the white vapour was still a veil , it was like the gauzy veil of a transformation scene in a pantomime ; for through it there glowed shapeless masses of colour , masses which might be clouds of sunrise or mosaics of gold and crimson , or ladies robed in ruby and emerald draperies .
It was of pure white steel , and in the moon it gleamed like the armour of Sir Galahad .
The simile of such virginity is not inappropriate ; for , as it grew larger and larger and lower and lower , Evan saw that the only figure in it was robed in white from head to foot and crowned with snow - white hair , on which the moonshine lay like a benediction .
As the white - robed figure went upward in his white chariot , he said quite quietly to Evan : " There is an answer to all the folly talked about equality .
It seemed that it was really newly covered with silver , which in the strong moonlight was like white flame .
For he could imagine nothing that so echoed his own visions of pontifical or chivalric art as this white dome sitting like a vast silver tiara over London , ringed with a triple crown of swords .
" We attach great importance to discipline in the streets ," said the man in white , with a slight smile .
" I am an angel ," said the white - robed figure , without turning round .
The first was that his lean brown body was bare to the belt of his loose white trousers ; the other that through hygiene , affectation , or whatever other cause , he had a scarlet handkerchief tied tightly but somewhat aslant across his brow .
One was that under the scarlet rag the hair was plentiful , but white as with the last snows of mortality .
Another was that under the mop of white and senile hair the face was strong , handsome , and smiling , with a well - cut profile and a long cloven chin .
At last , when they had walked nearly a mile in those white and polished tunnels , they came with quite a shock to the futile finality of a cul - de - sac .
All that white and weary journey ended suddenly in an oblong space and a blank white wall .
But in the white wall there were two iron doors painted white on which were written , respectively , in neat black capitals B and C .
Every morning , while Turnbull was still half asleep on his iron bedstead which was lifted half - way up the wall and clamped to it with iron , four sluices or metal mouths opened above him at the four corners of the chamber and washed it white of any defilement .
Here the white and slippery walls escaped even from bearing witness .
The thing got up with the promptitude of an animal , and turning round offered the spectacle of two owlish eyes and a huge grey - and - white beard not unlike the plumage of an owl .
When you were fool enough to agree to fight MacIan , after all , everybody was ready to believe that the Bank of England might paint itself pink with white spots ."
A white early moon was hardly traceable upon that delicate yellow .
Turnbull looked up in the white face of his friend and enemy , and almost turned cold at what he saw there .
The pure lemon of the sky faded into purer white as the great sunset silently collapsed .
MacIan , quite white , made a step forward , but the speaker did not alter his easy attitude or his flow of words .
In the roof above their heads a panel shot back , showing a strip of star - lit sky and a huge thing made of white metal , with the shape and fins of a fish , swinging as if at anchor .
In the heart of that white - hot hell he was singing like a bird .
The red flush of it lit up the long sides of white ships far out in the German Ocean , and picked out like piercing rubies the windows in the villages on the distant heights .
Waiters in white aprons were already laying out on white tables the insignia of an early and elegant lunch ; and this seemed to increase a satisfaction that already touched the top of swagger .
The young Harrogate was left behind for a moment emptying a glass of white wine and lighting a cigarette , as the beauty retired with the banker , the courier and the poet , distributing peals of silvery satire .
At about the same instant the two priests in the corner rose ; the taller , a white - haired Italian , taking his leave .
The white road climbed like a white cat ; it spanned sunless chasms like a tight - rope ; it was flung round far - off headlands like a lasso .
Almost opposite to this were the white and green blinds of the great scientist ' s house , an iron balcony , also painted green , running along in front of the first - floor windows .
" The grey envelope -- it was a white envelope really -- was --"
" I ' m frightened of a white envelope ," said the other seriously , " If it had only just been grey !
But if it was white , the whole business is black .
If it ' s white instead of black , and solid instead of liquid , and so on all along the line -- then there ' s something wrong , Monsieur , there ' s something wrong .
Flambeau was peering into the house with a visage as white as a sheet .
Seen thus in the glass the white face looked like the face of Judas laughing horribly and surrounded by capering flames of hell .
His vivid black eyes rolled volcanically , his bronzed face , handsome as it was , showed at that moment a combination of high cheekbones with set white teeth , which recalled certain American conjectures about his origin in the Southern plantations .
At the same instant Sir Wilson Seymour burst back into the room , white as ivory .
Like the white tail of a rabbit he had the vanishing thought that he was certain of their grief , but not so certain of their innocence .
Cowdray was resuming his seat with his solemn face , smoothing his black silk robes , and white silk whiskers .
It was some two hours ago , about seven by this time ; the moonlight was more luminous , and I could see the long white streaks of it lying on the mysterious mere with its grey , greasy , half - liquid shores in which they say our fathers used to make witches walk until they sank .
" But you can ' t be so mad as to say ," said Greywood Usher , very white , " that Lord Falconroy was Drugger Davis ."
Anyone passing the place during a certain autumn evening , itself almost fairylike , might have seen a hand pull aside the red half - blind which ( along with some large white lettering ) half hid the interior from the street , and a face peer out not unlike a rather innocent goblin ' s .
Then his round eyes rolled to the large white lettering on the window above his head , and then strayed to the next table , at which sat only a navvy with beer and cheese , and a young girl with red hair and a glass of milk .
Then his dubious eye roamed again to the white lettering on the glass front of the public - house .
His complexion was neither sallow nor livid , but on the contrary rather clear and youthful ; yet this gave a pink - and - white wax look which somehow ( I don ' t know why ) rather increased the horror .
It was the tip of a crooked nose , crushed against the glass ; it looked white with the pressure ; and the staring face and eyes behind it were at first invisible and afterwards grey like a ghost .
Looking at him again , more strictly , I could not exactly say what it was that gave me the sense of antiquity , except the antique cut of his white clerical necktie and the barred wrinkles across his brow .
Exmoor , it seems , was white as ashes , but his eyes still blazed .
Some of the planks and beams were of good , seasoned oak ; some of such wood cut raw and recent ; some again of white pinewood , and a great deal more of the same sort of wood painted black with tar .
He wore an ordinary dark - blue jacket , with nothing special about the buttons , but the combination of it with white linen trousers somehow had a sailorish look .
The semicircle of lawn in front of the house was varied by three circular garden beds , one of red tulips , a second of yellow tulips , and the third of some white , waxen - looking blossoms that the visitors did not know and presumed to be exotic .
But such things were less prominent on the white panelling than some cases of quaint - coloured South American birds , very scientifically stuffed , fantastic shells from the Pacific , and several instruments so rude and queer in shape that savages might have used them either to kill their enemies or to cook them .
" By the Lord it has ," cried Fanshaw , who was very white .
And , sure enough , there appeared in the doorway a big white bulk with white cap and white apron , as befits a cook , but with the needless emphasis of a black face .
But he was a very different figure from the confused mass of white and black that had appeared for an instant in the doorway .
It is needless to say that he wore white spats and a white slip inside his waistcoat .
"` In which Voodoo ,'" repeated the reader , almost with relish , "` is widely organized outside Jamaica itself is in the form known as the Monkey , or the God of the Gongs , which is powerful in many parts of the two American continents , especially among half - breeds , many of whom look exactly like white men .
You steal a coloured gentleman ' s prize -- prize his already -- yo ' think yo ' jes ' save that white ' Talian trash --"
Persons of a figure remotely reconcilable with his were subjected to quite extraordinary inquisitions , made to scrub their faces before going on board ship , as if each white complexion were made up like a mask , of greasepaint .
FATHER BROWN was walking home from Mass on a white weird morning when the mists were slowly lifting -- one of those mornings when the very element of light appears as something mysterious and new .
The figure was much longer , leaner , and more athletic ; the pyjamas , though equally tropical , were comparatively tasteful , being of white with a light lemon - yellow stripe .
He was indeed emphatic , but then he was talking to his cook -- the swarthy son of Malta , whose lean , yellow and rather careworn face contrasted quaintly with his snow - white cap and costume .
We were in a fortress there ; and as it happened our bedrooms overlooked the open sea , which almost came up to our window - sills , save for a flat white outer wall as bare as the sea .
The Temple of the Monkey was either a coincidence or a part of the trick ; the trick was the trick of a white man .
There is only one weapon that will bring blood with that mere feathery touch : a razor held by a white man .
There is one way of making a common room full of invisible , overpowering poison : turning on the gas -- the crime of a white man .
He thought hazily of ghosts ; and was surprised how swiftly he could see the image of an appropriate and local ghost , one with a face as white as Pierrot ' s , but patched with black .
That white face flung up to heaven , clean - shaven and so unnaturally young , like Byron with a Roman nose , those black curls already grizzled -- he had seen the thousand public portraits of Sir Claude Champion .
The moonlight discoloured everything , against Dalroy ' s red hair his wan face looked not so much white as pale green .
They tell me that not long ago he could still be seen about the neighbourhood occasionally , a man in a black cloak , nearly blind , with very wild , white hair , but a face of astonishing softness ."
He was clad in his full white and yellow uniform , as to receive his guests within , except that the sash or scarf had been unbound and lay rather crumpled by his side .
A slight breeze stirred the budding trees and blew up into the sky cloudlets of white and pink that seemed to make the sky bluer and the whole coloured scene more quaint .
" Behind the lectern , and looking across the valley , stood a very old man in a black robe that fell as straight as the cliffs around him , but whose white hair and weak voice seemed alike to waver in the wind .
And he ruminated long before the portrait of a white - haired man with black eyebrows and a pink , painted sort of smile that seemed to contradict the black warning in his eyes .
Like the white lock of Whistler , that lit our aimless gloom , Men showed their own white feather as proudly as a plume .
That old gentleman with the wild , white beard and the wild , white hat -- that venerable humbug was not really a philosopher ; but at least he was the cause of philosophy in others .
Syme rose slowly to his feet and thrust his long , white hands into his long , grey trousers ' pockets .
Then a large old man , with a long and venerable white beard , perhaps the only real working - man present , rose lumberingly and said --
He had made up his mind , and he saw his best policy quite plain in front of him like a white road .
It broke like the splitting of great bars of lead , showing bars of silver ; and these had brightened like white fire when the tug , changing its onward course , turned inward to a large landing stage rather beyond Charing Cross .
They were big and black against the huge white dawn .
In fact , it did contain a dining - table , or more strictly a breakfast - table ; and round the breakfast - table , glowing in the sunlight and evident to the street , were a group of noisy and talkative men , all dressed in the insolence of fashion , with white waistcoats and expensive button - holes .
His head , crowned with white hair , as seen from behind looked bigger than a head ought to be .
He wore , indeed , the high white collar and satin tie that were the uniform of the occasion ; but out of this collar there sprang a head quite unmanageable and quite unmistakable , a bewildering bush of brown hair and beard that almost obscured the eyes like those of a Skye terrier .
Snow , however , began to thicken and fall fast ; and Syme , having found one glance at the wax lady quite sufficient to depress his spirits , stared out instead into the white and empty street .
His top hat was loaded with snow like the hat of Father Christmas , the white drift was rising round his boots and ankles ; but it seemed as if nothing could tear him away from the contemplation of the colourless wax doll in dirty evening dress .
At a small table , close up to the blank window and the white street of snow , sat the old anarchist Professor over a glass of milk , with his lifted livid face and pendent eyelids .
Under the white fog of snow high up in the heaven the whole atmosphere of the city was turned to a very queer kind of green twilight , as of men under the sea .
He made a wild gesture as if to knock the old man ' s hat off , called out something like " Catch me if you can ," and went racing away across the white , open Circus .
Most of the snow was melted or trampled to mud , but here and there a clot of it still showed grey rather than white in the gloom .
The Professor , who seemed to know his way about the neighbourhood , proceeded to a place where the line of lighted shops fell back into a sort of abrupt twilight and quiet , in which an old white inn , all out of repair , stood back some twenty feet from the road .
He has not perhaps the white - hot enthusiasm unto death , the mad martyrdom for anarchy , which marks the Secretary .
By the time they reached Dr . Bull ' s landing , a last window showed them a harsh , white dawn edged with banks of a kind of coarse red , more like red clay than red cloud .
There should have been the black outline of a guillotine against that heavy red and white of the morning .
Dr . Bull was in his white shirt and black breeches only ; his cropped , dark head might well have just come out of its wig ; he might have been Marat or a more slipshod Robespierre .
The strong , white light of morning coming from one side creating sharp shadows , made him seem both more pale and more angular than he had looked at the breakfast on the balcony .
Colonel Ducroix knelt down and unlocked the case , taking out a pair of twin swords , which took the sunlight and turned to two streaks of white fire .
Colonel Ducroix moved mechanically , but then tugged abruptly at his white moustache and broke out --
" Could I know a white elephant among all those people !"
Now a man ' s head was lit as with a light of Rembrandt , leaving all else obliterated ; now again he had strong and staring white hands with the face of a negro .
This wood of witchery , in which men ' s faces turned black and white by turns , in which their figures first swelled into sunlight and then faded into formless night , this mere chaos of chiaroscuro ( after the clear daylight outside ), seemed to Syme a perfect symbol of the world in which he had been moving for three days , this world where men took off their beards and their spectacles and their noses , and turned into other people .
The only difference was that in Sussex the road would have been broken and angular like a little brook , but here the white French road fell sheer in front of them like a waterfall .
He was a white - haired , apple - faced old boy , with sleepy eyes and a grey moustache ; stout , sedentary , and very innocent , of a type that may often be found in France , but is still commoner in Catholic Germany .
Colonel Ducroix smiled behind his bristly white moustache .
Almost as he spoke , the old innkeeper with the blue eyes and white hair came ambling into the room , and announced that six horses were saddled outside .
By Ducroix ' s advice the five others equipped themselves with some portable form of food and wine , and keeping their duelling swords as the only weapons available , they clattered away down the steep , white road .
He was still looking at this dwindling figure , which stood as a mere grey blot touched with a white flame against the great green wall of the steep down behind him .
" I am afraid ," said the Professor in his mirthful way , looking back along the white road on which the black , crawling patch might appear at any moment , " I am afraid we have hardly time for afternoon calls ."
Not with all that white hair ."
Dr . Renard inhabited a high and comfortable house at the top of a steep street , so that when the riders alighted at his door they could once more see the solid green ridge of the hill , with the white road across it , standing up above all the roofs of the town .
As the car sped on it left a floating patch of white smoke behind it , and Syme had heard a shot shriek past his ear .
There was , indeed , a rank of dim figures running across the road , and they could not be clearly seen ; but far enough in front to catch the accident of the evening light was stalking up and down the unmistakable Dr . Renard , in a white hat , stroking his long brown beard , and holding a revolver in his left hand .
Almost at the same second as the puff of white cloud went up from this atrocious explosion a long puff of white cloud went up also from the cigarette of the cynical Ratcliffe .
As they spoke , the white - haired horseman and his followers came thundering from above , and almost at the same moment a dark string of men ran shouting along the sea - front .
The other was the red face and white moustache of Colonel Ducroix .
At the highest ecstacy of speed , Sunday turned round on the splashboard where he stood , and sticking his great grinning head out of the cab , with white hair whistling in the wind , he made a horrible face at his pursuers , like some colossal urchin .
" He has run away with an old gentleman ," said the other stranger breathlessly , " a poor old gentleman with white hair ! "
The balloon , borne by some chance wind , came right above them , and they could see the great white head of the President peering over the side and looking benevolently down on them .
There was the same white hair , the same great , grey - clad shoulders that I had seen from behind .
" Show us the place ," Syme said briefly , and without a word the man in the violet coat turned his back and walked towards a gap in the hedge , which let in suddenly the light of a white road .
As the six wanderers broke out upon this thoroughfare , they saw the white road blocked by what looked like a long row of carriages , such a row of carriages as might close the approach to some house in Park Lane .
He was draped in a long robe of starless black , down the centre of which fell a band or broad stripe of pure white , like a single shaft of light .
The vestment itself would alone have suggested the symbol ; and Syme felt also how perfectly this pattern of pure white and black expressed the soul of the pale and austere Secretary , with his inhuman veracity and his cold frenzy , which made him so easily make war on the anarchists , and yet so easily pass for one of them .
He was draped plainly , in a pure and terrible white , and his hair was like a silver flame on his forehead .
He walked by instinct along one white road , on which early birds hopped and sang , and found himself outside a fenced garden .
When they had done work one day , Annie went to the master of the paper - mill and asked him if she might have two sheets of large white paper which were lying on the press .
They could not see anyone , so they walked softly round to the other side of the church , and there they saw Mary kneeling beside a grave , on which her brothers and sisters were hanging their white garlands .
[*" The proper species of rush ," says White , in his ' Natural History of Selborne ,' " seems to be the Juncus effusus , or common soft rush , which is to be found in moist pastures , by the sides of streams , and under hedges .
" White , and like glass ," said the man , and went on working whilst Jem looked very carefully over the heap of rubbish for a great while .
" Nay , then ," said Jem , " you look white enough now , if that will please you , for you ' re turned as pale as death ."
" To say that black is white , which I won ' t do , Mr . Case .
Susan hung up a white apron before the window to keep out the light , and just then she heard the sound of music at a distance in the village .
" He must be very old , for all his hair is white ; and he must have travelled a great way , for his shoes are quite worn out ," observed another .
THE WHITE PIGEON .
At length , as he was examining one of the garrets , he was startled by a fluttering noise over his head ; and looking up , he saw a white pigeon , who , frightened at his appearance , began to fly round and round the room , till it found its way out of the door , and flew into the staircase .
The carpenter was speaking to Mr . Somerville upon the landing - place of the stairs ; but , the moment he spied the white pigeon , he broke off in the midst of a speech about THE NOSE of the stairs , and exclaimed , " There he is , please your honour !
There ' s he that has done all the damage to our bow - window -- that ' s the very same wicked white pigeon that broke the church windows last Sunday was se ' nnight ; but he ' s down for it now ; we have him safe , and I ' ll chop his head off , as he deserves , this minute ."
Don ' t chop his head off ," added the boy to the carpenter , who had now the white pigeon in his hands .
He ran to look for it in the street , but could not find it , which I was very glad of ; but I was very sorry just now to find it myself lying upon this heap of shavings , sir , under this broken window ; for , as soon as I saw it lying there , I knew I must have been the person that broke the window ; and through this window came the white pigeon .
Here ' s one of his white feathers sticking in the gap ."
The white pigeon belongs to a poor neighbour , a friend of ours , who is very fond of him , and I would not have him killed for twice as much money ."
In the meantime , this boy , whose name was Brian O ' Neill , went to return the white pigeon to its owner .
" To be sure , to be sure , my boy ," said his father , laughing ; " I wish you may make the best messenger in Ireland of your pigeon ; but all I beg , my dear boy , is that you won ' t neglect our shop for your pigeon ; for I ' ve a notion we have a better chance of making a fortune by the shop than by the white pigeon ."
He soon was employed by the neighbours , who were aroused by Brian ' s fondness of his swift messenger ; and soon the fame of the white pigeon was spread amongst all who frequented the markets and fairs of Somerville .
Cox ' s son , a lad of about nineteen , who was one of this gang , mentioned the white carrier - pigeon , and he was desired to try all means to get it into his possession .
But this was false , for it was he who during the night - time had stolen the white pigeon .
" O , father , here ' s my white pigeon come back of his own accord ," exclaimed Brian ; " I must run and show him to my mother ."
The boy pulled off the cover , and saw a white pigeon painted upon the sign , and the name of O ' Neill in large letters underneath .
" Come down from the ladder , and wish your father joy of being master of the new inn called the ' White Pigeon .'
" Mr . Young , College Salt Bearer ; white and gold dress , rich satin bag , covered with gold netting .
" Mr . Mansfield , Oppidan , white , purple , and orange dress , trimmed with silver ; rich satin bag , purple and silver : each carrying elegant poles , with gold and silver cord .
" Mr . Islip ( being in mourning ), a scarf ; helmet , black velvet ; and white satin .
He is college salt bearer , I understand , and has a prodigious superb white and gold dress .
But , in my humble opinion , ma ' m , the marshal ' s white and purple and orange fancy dress , trimmed with silver , will bear the bell ; though , indeed , I shouldn ' t say that ,-- for the colonel ' s and lieutenant ' s , and ensign ' s , are beautiful in the extreme .
Of all birds , beasts , or fishes , that swim in the sea , Webb ' d or finn ' d , black or white , man or child , Whig or Tory , None but Talbot , O , Talbot ' s the dog for Rory ."
For that I take shame to myself , as it turned out ; but it was only a WHITE lie to SARVE a friend , and make him cut a dash with a new song at election time .
But I ' ve done for ever with white lies .
" Why , sir , because everybody has -- I mean everybody that ' s anybody ; and Lady Diana was talking about the uniform all dinner time , and it ' s settled , all about it , except the buttons : the young Sweepstakes are to get theirs made first for patterns -- they are to be white , faced with green , and they ' ll look very handsome , I ' m sure ; and I shall write to mamma to - night , as Lady Diana bid me , about mine ; and I shall tell her to be sure to answer my letter , without fail , by return of post ; and then , if mamma makes no objection , which I know she won ' t , because she never thinks much about expense , and ALL THAT -- then I shall bespeak my uniform , and get it made by the same tailor that makes for Lady Diana and the young Sweepstakes ."
" My dear uncle , but I assure you ," said Hal , earnestly , " there ' s no judging about the matter , because really , upon my word , Lady Diana said distinctly , that her sons were to have uniforms , white faced with green , and a green and white cockade in their hats ."
Hal , after he was again seated in the hackney - coach , and had rattled through the busy streets of Bristol , for a few minutes quite forgot the spectacle of misery which he had seen ; and the gay shops in Wine Street and the idea of his green and white uniform wholly occupied his imagination .
" Well , let me get out of the carriage , and we will see about it ," said Mr . Gresham ; " perhaps the sight of the beautiful green and white cloth , and the epaulettes ( have you ever considered the epaulettes ?)
The green cloth , and the white cloth , and the epaulettes were produced , to Hal ' s infinite satisfaction .
Upon his return home , however , the sight of the FAMOUS bow and arrow , which Lady Diana Sweepstakes had sent him , recalled to his imagination all the joys of his green and white uniform ; and he no longer wished that it had not been sent to the tailor ' s .
I don ' t think I shall feel it cold at all ," said Hal , as he dressed himself in his new green and white uniform ; and he viewed himself with much complacency .
The white teeth are not quite even ."
As he stopped to pick it up , he let go his hat , which he had hitherto held on with anxious care ; for the hat , though it had a fine green and white cockade , had no band or string round it .
He tried to draw it back ; his other foot slipped , and he fell prostrate , in his green and white uniform , into the treacherous bed of red mud .
However , Hal , who did not see the red splashes , which , in spite of all these operations , were too visible upon his shoulders , and upon the skirts of his white coat behind , was pretty well satisfied to observe that there was not one spot upon the facings .
I ' m one of the archers -- I am , indeed ; don ' t you see my green and white uniform ?"
" Your red and white uniform , you mean ," said the man to whom he addressed himself ; and the people , as they opened a passage for him , could not refrain laughing at the mixture of dirt and finery which it exhibited .
Besides her blooming complexion , the delicate white of her garments had struck them with admiration ; and they observed that her brother carefully guarded her dress from the wheel of the carriage , as he handed her in .
" Oh , I only mixed red , blue , green and yellow , to show you , Marianne , that all colours mixed together make white .
" As a delicate white hand has ever been deemed a distinguishing ornament in either sex , Messrs . Valiant and Wise conceive it to be their duty to take the earliest opportunity to advertise the nobility and gentry of Great Britain in general , and their friends in particular , that they have now ready for sale , as usual , at the Hippocrates ' Head , a fresh assortment of new - invented , much admired , primrose soap .
At this instant a female figure in white appeared upon the stairs ; she passed swiftly on , whilst everyone gave way before her .
As the house was new to him , and the ceiling being newly white - washed , the opening was scarcely perceptible .
Each of the young judges were to signify their choice by putting a red or a white shell into a vase prepared for the purpose .
Cecilia ' s colour was red , Leonora ' s white .
" Well , here ' s my white shell for you ," said Louisa .
Youth and white paper , as the proverb says , take all impressions .
Francisco , as he was coming from his father ' s vineyard with a large dish of purple and white grapes upon his head , and a basket of melons and figs hanging upon his arm , chanced to see Piedro seated in this melancholy posture .
"; and as he spoke , Carlo , for that was the name of Piedro ' s new customer , pulled a bit of white chalk out of his pocket , and drew a broad score across the line on the board which promised burnt almonds gratis .
Columns of red and white marble , and flights of steps , are seen in different places ; and out of the ruins of the palaces some very fine statues and pictures have been dug .
At a distance Loveit saw the white washed cottage , and the apple - tree beside it .
At the foot of a steep , slippery , white hill , near Dunstable , in Bedfordshire , called Chalk Hill , there is a hut , or rather a hovel , which travellers could scarcely suppose could be inhabited , if they did not see the smoke rising from its peaked roof .
" The gentleman in the white parlour , sir , do you mean ?"
... One of our harpooneers told me that he caught once a whale in Spitzbergen that was white all over ."
Moving on , I at last came to a dim sort of light not far from the docks , and heard a forlorn creaking in the air ; and looking up , saw a swinging sign over the door with a white painting upon it , faintly representing a tall straight jet of misty spray , and these words underneath --" The Spouter Inn :-- Peter Coffin ."
His face was deeply brown and burnt , making his white teeth dazzling by the contrast ; while in the deep shadows of his eyes floated some reminiscences that did not seem to give him much joy .
I remembered a story of a white man -- a whaleman too -- who , falling among the cannibals , had been tattooed by them .
To be sure , it might be nothing but a good coat of tropical tanning ; but I never heard of a hot sun ' s tanning a white man into a purplish yellow one .
And ever , as the white moon shows her affrighted face from the steep gullies in the blackness overhead , aghast Jonah sees the rearing bowsprit pointing high upward , but soon beat downward again towards the tormented deep .
He goes down in the whirling heart of such a masterless commotion that he scarce heeds the moment when he drops seething into the yawning jaws awaiting him ; and the whale shoots - to all his ivory teeth , like so many white bolts , upon his prison .
So full of this reeling scene were we , as we stood by the plunging bowsprit , that for some time we did not notice the jeering glances of the passengers , a lubber - like assembly , who marvelled that two fellow beings should be so companionable ; as though a white man were anything more dignified than a whitewashed negro .
But the directions he had given us about keeping a yellow warehouse on our starboard hand till we opened a white church to the larboard , and then keeping that on the larboard hand till we made a corner three points to the starboard , and that done , then ask the first man we met where the place was : these crooked directions of his very much puzzled us at first , especially as , at the outset , Queequeg insisted that the yellow warehouse -- our first point of departure -- must be left on the larboard hand , whereas I had understood Peter Coffin to say it was on the starboard .
The long rows of teeth on the bulwarks glistened in the moonlight ; and like the white ivory tusks of some huge elephant , vast curving icicles depended from the bows .
Don ' t stave the boats needlessly , ye harpooneers ; good white cedar plank is raised full three per cent .
There was a corporeal humility in looking up at him ; and a white man standing before him seemed a white flag come to beg truce of a fortress .
So that no white sailor seriously contradicted him when he said that if ever Captain Ahab should be tranquilly laid out -- which might hardly come to pass , so he muttered -- then , whoever should do that last office for the dead , would find a birth - mark on him from crown to sole .
So powerfully did the whole grim aspect of Ahab affect me , and the livid brand which streaked it , that for the first few moments I hardly noted that not a little of this overbearing grimness was owing to the barbaric white leg upon which he partly stood .
This thing that is meant for sereneness , to send up mild white vapours among mild white hairs , not among torn iron - grey locks like mine .
If ye see a white one , split your lungs for him !
A white whale -- did ye mark that , man ?
He is the most gamesome and light - hearted of all the whales , making more gay foam and white water generally than any other of them .
The Narwhale has a very picturesque , leopard - like look , being of a milk - white ground colour , dotted with round and oblong spots of black .
Though his entire back down to his side fins is of a deep sable , yet a boundary line , distinct as the mark in a ship ' s hull , called the " bright waist ," that line streaks him from stem to stern , with two separate colours , black above and white below .
The white comprises part of his head , and the whole of his mouth , which makes him look as if he had just escaped from a felonious visit to a meal - bag .
Over his ivory - inlaid table , Ahab presided like a mute , maned sea - lion on the white coral beach , surrounded by his warlike but still deferential cubs .
hard fares the white waiter who waits upon cannibals .
" All ye mast - headers have before now heard me give orders about a white whale .
Receiving the top - maul from Starbuck , he advanced towards the main - mast with the hammer uplifted in one hand , exhibiting the gold with the other , and with a high raised voice exclaiming : " Whosoever of ye raises me a white - headed whale with a wrinkled brow and a crooked jaw ; whosoever of ye raises me that white - headed whale , with three holes punctured in his starboard fluke -- look ye , whosoever of ye raises me that same white whale , he shall have this gold ounce , my boys !"
" It ' s a white whale , I say ," resumed Ahab , as he threw down the topmaul : " a white whale .
Skin your eyes for him , men ; look sharp for white water ; if ye see but a bubble , sing out ."
" Captain Ahab ," said Tashtego , " that white whale must be the same that some call Moby Dick ."
" Do ye know the white whale then , Tash ?"
cried Ahab , " aye , Queequeg , the harpoons lie all twisted and wrenched in him ; aye , Daggoo , his spout is a big one , like a whole shock of wheat , and white as a pile of our Nantucket wool after the great annual sheep - shearing ; aye , Tashtego , and he fan - tails like a split jib in a squall .
it was that accursed white whale that razeed me ; made a poor pegging lubber of me for ever and a day !"
to chase that white whale on both sides of land , and over all sides of earth , till he spouts black blood and rolls fin out .
shouted the harpooneers and seamen , running closer to the excited old man : " A sharp eye for the white whale ; a sharp lance for Moby Dick !"
But what ' s this long face about , Mr . Starbuck ; wilt thou not chase the white whale ?
To me , the white whale is that wall , shoved near to me .
That inscrutable thing is chiefly what I hate ; and be the white whale agent , or be the white whale principal , I will wreak that hate upon him .
The long , barbed steel goblets were lifted ; and to cries and maledictions against the white whale , the spirits were simultaneously quaffed down with a hiss .
I leave a white and turbid wake ; pale waters , paler cheeks , where ' er I sail .
The white whale is their demigorgon .
( QUIETLY SMOKING ) That ' s a white man ; he calls that fun : humph !
White skin , white liver !
But those chaps there are worse yet -- they are your white squalls , they .
White squalls ?
white whale , shirr !
Here have I heard all their chat just now , and the white whale -- shirr !
Oh , thou big white God aloft there somewhere in yon darkness , have mercy on this small black boy down here ; preserve him from all men that have no bowels to feel fear !
For some time past , though at intervals only , the unaccompanied , secluded White Whale had haunted those uncivilized seas mostly frequented by the Sperm Whale fishermen .
And as for those who , previously hearing of the White Whale , by chance caught sight of him ; in the beginning of the thing they had every one of them , almost , as boldly and fearlessly lowered for him , as for any other whale of that species .
But at length , such calamities did ensue in these assaults -- not restricted to sprained wrists and ankles , broken limbs , or devouring amputations -- but fatal to the last degree of fatality ; those repeated disastrous repulses , all accumulating and piling their terrors upon Moby Dick ; those things had gone far to shake the fortitude of many brave hunters , to whom the story of the White Whale had eventually come .
No wonder , then , that ever gathering volume from the mere transit over the widest watery spaces , the outblown rumors of the White Whale did in the end incorporate with themselves all manner of morbid hints , and half - formed foetal suggestions of supernatural agencies , which eventually invested Moby Dick with new terrors unborrowed from anything that visibly appears .
So that in many cases such a panic did he finally strike , that few who by those rumors , at least , had heard of the White Whale , few of those hunters were willing to encounter the perils of his jaw .
One of the wild suggestions referred to , as at last coming to be linked with the White Whale in the minds of the superstitiously inclined , was the unearthly conceit that Moby Dick was ubiquitous ; that he had actually been encountered in opposite latitudes at one and the same instant of time .
Forced into familiarity , then , with such prodigies as these ; and knowing that after repeated , intrepid assaults , the White Whale had escaped alive ; it cannot be much matter of surprise that some whalemen should go still further in their superstitions ; declaring Moby Dick not only ubiquitous , but immortal ( for immortality is but ubiquity in time ); that though groves of spears should be planted in his flanks , he would still swim away unharmed ; or if indeed he should ever be made to spout thick blood , such a sight would be but a ghastly deception ; for again in unensanguined billows hundreds of leagues away , his unsullied jet would once more be seen .
For , it was not so much his uncommon bulk that so much distinguished him from other sperm whales , but , as was elsewhere thrown out -- a peculiar snow - white wrinkled forehead , and a high , pyramidical white hump .
The rest of his body was so streaked , and spotted , and marbled with the same shrouded hue , that , in the end , he had gained his distinctive appellation of the White Whale ; a name , indeed , literally justified by his vivid aspect , when seen gliding at high noon through a dark blue sea , leaving a milky - way wake of creamy foam , all spangled with golden gleamings .
But though similar disasters , however little bruited ashore , were by no means unusual in the fishery ; yet , in most instances , such seemed the White Whale ' s infernal aforethought of ferocity , that every dismembering or death that he caused , was not wholly regarded as having been inflicted by an unintelligent agent .
Judge , then , to what pitches of inflamed , distracted fury the minds of his more desperate hunters were impelled , when amid the chips of chewed boats , and the sinking limbs of torn comrades , they swam out of the white curds of the whale ' s direful wrath into the serene , exasperating sunlight , that smiled on , as if at a birth or a bridal .
The White Whale swam before him as the monomaniac incarnation of all those malicious agencies which some deep men feel eating in them , till they are left living on with half a heart and half a lung .
That intangible malignity which has been from the beginning ; to whose dominion even the modern Christians ascribe one - half of the worlds ; which the ancient Ophites of the east reverenced in their statue devil ;-- Ahab did not fall down and worship it like them ; but deliriously transferring its idea to the abhorred white whale , he pitted himself , all mutilated , against it .
He piled upon the whale ' s white hump the sum of all the general rage and hate felt by his whole race from Adam down ; and then , as if his chest had been a mortar , he burst his hot heart ' s shell upon it .
But be all this as it may , certain it is , that with the mad secret of his unabated rage bolted up and keyed in him , Ahab had purposely sailed upon the present voyage with the one only and all - engrossing object of hunting the White Whale .
How it was that they so aboundingly responded to the old man ' s ire -- by what evil magic their souls were possessed , that at times his hate seemed almost theirs ; the White Whale as much their insufferable foe as his ; how all this came to be -- what the White Whale was to them , or how to their unconscious understandings , also , in some dim , unsuspected way , he might have seemed the gliding great demon of the seas of life ,-- all this to explain , would be to dive deeper than Ishmael can go .
What the white whale was to Ahab , has been hinted ; what , at times , he was to me , as yet remains unsaid .
Though in many natural objects , whiteness refiningly enhances beauty , as if imparting some special virtue of its own , as in marbles , japonicas , and pearls ; and though various nations have in some way recognised a certain royal preeminence in this hue ; even the barbaric , grand old kings of Pegu placing the title " Lord of the White Elephants " above all their other magniloquent ascriptions of dominion ; and the modern kings of Siam unfurling the same snow - white quadruped in the royal standard ; and the Hanoverian flag bearing the one figure of a snow - white charger ; and the great Austrian Empire , Caesarian , heir to overlording Rome , having for the imperial colour the same imperial hue ; and though this pre - eminence in it applies to the human race itself , giving the white man ideal mastership over every dusky tribe ; and though , besides , all this , whiteness has been even made significant of gladness , for among the Romans a white stone marked a joyful day ; and though in other mortal sympathies and symbolizings , this same hue is made the emblem of many touching , noble things -- the innocence of brides , the benignity of age ; though among the Red Men of America the giving of the white belt of wampum was the deepest pledge of honour ; though in many climes , whiteness typifies the majesty of Justice in the ermine of the Judge , and contributes to the daily state of kings and queens drawn by milk - white steeds ; though even in the higher mysteries of the most august religions it has been made the symbol of the divine spotlessness and power ; by the Persian fire worshippers , the white forked flame being held the holiest on the altar ; and in the Greek mythologies , Great Jove himself being made incarnate in a snow - white bull ; and though to the noble Iroquois , the midwinter sacrifice of the sacred White Dog was by far the holiest festival of their theology , that spotless , faithful creature being held the purest envoy they could send to the Great Spirit with the annual tidings of their own fidelity ; and though directly from the Latin word for white , all Christian priests derive the name of one part of their sacred vesture , the alb or tunic , worn beneath the cassock ; and though among the holy pomps of the Romish faith , white is specially employed in the celebration of the Passion of our Lord ; though in the Vision of St . John , white robes are given to the redeemed , and the four - and - twenty elders stand clothed in white before the great - white throne , and the Holy One that sitteth there white like wool ; yet for all these accumulated associations , with whatever is sweet , and honourable , and sublime , there yet lurks an elusive something in the innermost idea of this hue , which strikes more of panic to the soul than that redness which affrights in blood .
Witness the white bear of the poles , and the white shark of the tropics ; what but their smooth , flaky whiteness makes them the transcendent horrors they are ?
So that not the fierce - fanged tiger in his heraldic coat can so stagger courage as the white - shrouded bear or shark .
As for the white shark , the white gliding ghostliness of repose in that creature , when beheld in his ordinary moods , strangely tallies with the same quality in the Polar quadruped .
Now , in allusion to the white , silent stillness of death in this shark , and the mild deadliness of his habits , the French call him REQUIN .
Bethink thee of the albatross , whence come those clouds of spiritual wonderment and pale dread , in which that white phantom sails in all imaginations ?
As Abraham before the angels , I bowed myself ; the white thing was so white , its wings so wide , and in those for ever exiled waters , I had lost the miserable warping memories of traditions and of towns .
But I doubt not , that leathern tally , meant for man , was taken off in Heaven , when the white fowl flew to join the wing - folding , the invoking , and adoring cherubim !
Most famous in our Western annals and Indian traditions is that of the White Steed of the Prairies ; a magnificent milk - white charger , large - eyed , small - headed , bluff - chested , and with the dignity of a thousand monarchs in his lofty , overscorning carriage .
Whether marching amid his aides and marshals in the van of countless cohorts that endlessly streamed it over the plains , like an Ohio ; or whether with his circumambient subjects browsing all around at the horizon , the White Steed gallopingly reviewed them with warm nostrils reddening through his cool milkiness ; in whatever aspect he presented himself , always to the bravest Indians he was the object of trembling reverence and awe .
But there are other instances where this whiteness loses all that accessory and strange glory which invests it in the White Steed and Albatross .
From its snowy aspect , the gauntleted ghost of the Southern Seas has been denominated the White Squall .
How wildly it heightens the effect of that passage in Froissart , when , masked in the snowy symbol of their faction , the desperate White Hoods of Ghent murder their bailiff in the market - place !
Nor even in our superstitions do we fail to throw the same snowy mantle round our phantoms ; all ghosts rising in a milk - white fog -- Yea , while these terrors seize us , let us add , that even the king of terrors , when personified by the evangelist , rides on his pallid horse .
Or , to the unread , unsophisticated Protestant of the Middle American States , why does the passing mention of a White Friar or a White Nun , evoke such an eyeless statue in the soul ?
Or what is there apart from the traditions of dungeoned warriors and kings ( which will not wholly account for it ) that makes the White Tower of London tell so much more strongly on the imagination of an untravelled American , than those other storied structures , its neighbors -- the Byward Tower , or even the Bloody ?
And those sublimer towers , the White Mountains of New Hampshire , whence , in peculiar moods , comes that gigantic ghostliness over the soul at the bare mention of that name , while the thought of Virginia ' s Blue Ridge is full of a soft , dewy , distant dreaminess ?
Or why , irrespective of all latitudes and longitudes , does the name of the White Sea exert such a spectralness over the fancy , while that of the Yellow Sea lulls us with mortal thoughts of long lacquered mild afternoons on the waves , followed by the gaudiest and yet sleepiest of sunsets ?
For Lima has taken the white veil ; and there is a higher horror in this whiteness of her woe .
First : The mariner , when drawing nigh the coasts of foreign lands , if by night he hear the roar of breakers , starts to vigilance , and feels just enough of trepidation to sharpen all his faculties ; but under precisely similar circumstances , let him be called from his hammock to view his ship sailing through a midnight sea of milky whiteness -- as if from encircling headlands shoals of combed white bears were swimming round him , then he feels a silent , superstitious dread ; the shrouded phantom of the whitened waters is horrible to him as a real ghost ; in vain the lead assures him he is still off soundings ; heart and helm they both go down ; he never rests till blue water is under him again .
But thou sayest , methinks that white - lead chapter about whiteness is but a white flag hung out from a craven soul ; thou surrenderest to a hypo , Ishmael .
Is it that by its indefiniteness it shadows forth the heartless voids and immensities of the universe , and thus stabs us from behind with the thought of annihilation , when beholding the white depths of the milky way ?
And when we consider that other theory of the natural philosophers , that all other earthly hues -- every stately or lovely emblazoning -- the sweet tinges of sunset skies and woods ; yea , and the gilded velvets of butterflies , and the butterfly cheeks of young girls ; all these are but subtile deceits , not actually inherent in substances , but only laid on from without ; so that all deified Nature absolutely paints like the harlot , whose allurements cover nothing but the charnel - house within ; and when we proceed further , and consider that the mystical cosmetic which produces every one of her hues , the great principle of light , for ever remains white or colourless in itself , and if operating without medium upon matter , would touch all objects , even tulips and roses , with its own blank tinge -- pondering all this , the palsied universe lies before us a leper ; and like wilful travellers in Lapland , who refuse to wear coloured and colouring glasses upon their eyes , so the wretched infidel gazes himself blind at the monumental white shroud that wraps all the prospect around him .
There it was , too , that most of the deadly encounters with the white whale had taken place ; there the waves were storied with his deeds ; there also was that tragic spot where the monomaniac old man had found the awful motive to his vengeance .
Because , an interval of three hundred and sixty - five days and nights was before him ; an interval which , instead of impatiently enduring ashore , he would spend in a miscellaneous hunt ; if by chance the White Whale , spending his vacation in seas far remote from his periodical feeding - grounds , should turn up his wrinkled brow off the Persian Gulf , or in the Bengal Bay , or China Seas , or in any other waters haunted by his race .
But granting all this ; yet , regarded discreetly and coolly , seems it not but a mad idea , this ; that in the broad boundless ocean , one solitary whale , even if encountered , should be thought capable of individual recognition from his hunter , even as a white - bearded Mufti in the thronged thoroughfares of Constantinople ?
For the peculiar snow - white brow of Moby Dick , and his snow - white hump , could not but be unmistakable .
For , at such times , crazy Ahab , the scheming , unappeasedly steadfast hunter of the white whale ; this Ahab that had gone to his hammock , was not the agent that so caused him to burst from it in horror again .
King of Japan , whose lofty jet they say at times assumed the semblance of a snow - white cross against the sky ?
I do not know where I can find a better place than just here , to make mention of one or two other things , which to me seem important , as in printed form establishing in all respects the reasonableness of the whole story of the White Whale , more especially the catastrophe .
It would be refining too much , perhaps , even considering his monomania , to hint that his vindictiveness towards the White Whale might have possibly extended itself in some degree to all sperm whales , and that the more monsters he slew by so much the more he multiplied the chances that each subsequently encountered whale would prove to be the hated one he hunted .
It might be that a long interval would elapse ere the White Whale was seen .
Granting that the White Whale fully incites the hearts of this my savage crew , and playing round their savageness even breeds a certain generous knight - errantism in them , still , while for the love of it they give chase to Moby Dick , they must also have food for their more common , daily appetites .
The figure that now stood by its bows was tall and swart , with one white tooth evilly protruding from its steel - like lips .
But strangely crowning this ebonness was a glistening white plaited turban , the living hair braided and coiled round and round upon his head .
Less swart in aspect , the companions of this figure were of that vivid , tiger - yellow complexion peculiar to some of the aboriginal natives of the Manillas ;-- a race notorious for a certain diabolism of subtilty , and by some honest white mariners supposed to be the paid spies and secret confidential agents on the water of the devil , their lord , whose counting - room they suppose to be elsewhere .
While yet the wondering ship ' s company were gazing upon these strangers , Ahab cried out to the white - turbaned old man at their head , " All ready there , Fedallah ?"
The White Whale ' s at the bottom of it .
It ain ' t the White Whale to - day !
As for Fedallah , who was seen pulling the harpooneer oar , he had thrown aside his black jacket , and displayed his naked chest with the whole part of his body above the gunwale , clearly cut against the alternating depressions of the watery horizon ; while at the other end of the boat Ahab , with one arm , like a fencer ' s , thrown half backward into the air , as if to counterbalance any tendency to trip ; Ahab was seen steadily managing his steering oar as in a thousand boat lowerings ere the White Whale had torn him .
To a landsman , no whale , nor any sign of a herring , would have been visible at that moment ; nothing but a troubled bit of greenish white water , and thin scattered puffs of vapour hovering over it , and suffusingly blowing off to leeward , like the confused scud from white rolling billows .
see that white water !"
The dancing white water made by the chase was now becoming more and more visible , owing to the increasing darkness of the dun cloud - shadows flung upon the sea .
There ' s white water again !-- close to !
The whole crew were half suffocated as they were tossed helter - skelter into the white curdling cream of the squall .
The wind increased to a howl ; the waves dashed their bucklers together ; the whole squall roared , forked , and crackled around us like a white fire upon the prairie , in which , unconsumed , we were burning ; immortal in these jaws of death !
There is nothing like the perils of whaling to breed this free and easy sort of genial , desperado philosophy ; and with it I now regarded this whole voyage of the Pequod , and the great White Whale its object .
Considering , therefore , that squalls and capsizings in the water and consequent bivouacks on the deep , were matters of common occurrence in this kind of life ; considering that at the superlatively critical instant of going on to the whale I must resign my life into the hands of him who steered the boat -- oftentimes a fellow who at that very moment is in his impetuousness upon the point of scuttling the craft with his own frantic stampings ; considering that the particular disaster to our own particular boat was chiefly to be imputed to Starbuck ' s driving on to his whale almost in the teeth of a squall , and considering that Starbuck , notwithstanding , was famous for his great heedfulness in the fishery ; considering that I belonged to this uncommonly prudent Starbuck ' s boat ; and finally considering in what a devil ' s chase I was implicated , touching the White Whale : taking all things together , I say , I thought I might as well go below and make a rough draft of my will .
It was while gliding through these latter waters that one serene and moonlight night , when all the waves rolled by like scrolls of silver ; and , by their soft , suffusing seethings , made what seemed a silvery silence , not a solitude ; on such a silent night a silvery jet was seen far in advance of the white bubbles at the bow .
But calm , snow - white , and unvarying ; still directing its fountain of feathers to the sky ; still beckoning us on from before , the solitary jet would at times be descried .
Have ye seen the White Whale ?"
While in various silent ways the seamen of the Pequod were evincing their observance of this ominous incident at the first mere mention of the White Whale ' s name to another ship , Ahab for a moment paused ; it almost seemed as though he would have lowered a boat to board the stranger , had not the threatening wind forbade .
To some the general interest in the White Whale was now wildly heightened by a circumstance of the Town - Ho ' s story , which seemed obscurely to involve with the whale a certain wondrous , inverted visitation of one of those so called judgments of God which at times are said to overtake some men .
It was the private property of three confederate white seamen of that ship , one of whom , it seems , communicated it to Tashtego with Romish injunctions of secrecy , but the following night Tashtego rambled in his sleep , and revealed so much of it in that way , that when he was wakened he could not well withhold the rest .
" For three hundred and sixty miles , gentlemen , through the entire breadth of the state of New York ; through numerous populous cities and most thriving villages ; through long , dismal , uninhabited swamps , and affluent , cultivated fields , unrivalled for fertility ; by billiard - room and bar - room ; through the holy - of - holies of great forests ; on Roman arches over Indian rivers ; through sun and shade ; by happy hearts or broken ; through all the wide contrasting scenery of those noble Mohawk counties ; and especially , by rows of snow - white chapels , whose spires stand almost like milestones , flows one continual stream of Venetianly corrupt and often lawless life .
"' A very white , and famous , and most deadly immortal monster , Don ;-- but that would be too long a story .'
' The White Whale -- the White Whale !'
" Where Steelkilt now is , gentlemen , none know ; but upon the island of Nantucket , the widow of Radney still turns to the sea which refuses to give up its dead ; still in dreams sees the awful white whale that destroyed him .
In one of those plates the whales , like great rafts of logs , are represented lying among ice - isles , with white bears running over their living backs .
And all the while the thick - lipped leviathan is rushing through the deep , leaving tons of tumultuous white curds in his wake , and causing the slight boat to rock in the swells like a skiff caught nigh the paddle - wheels of an ocean steamer .
As with the Hawaiian savage , so with the white sailor - savage .
In the distance , a great white mass lazily rose , and rising higher and higher , and disentangling itself from the azure , at last gleamed before our prow like a snow - slide , new slid from the hills .
The White Whale , the White Whale !"
Whether the flitting attendance of the one still and solitary jet had gradually worked upon Ahab , so that he was now prepared to connect the ideas of mildness and repose with the first sight of the particular whale he pursued ; however this was , or whether his eagerness betrayed him ; whichever way it might have been , no sooner did he distinctly perceive the white mass , than with a quick intensity he instantly gave orders for lowering .
As with a low sucking sound it slowly disappeared again , Starbuck still gazing at the agitated waters where it had sunk , with a wild voice exclaimed --" Almost rather had I seen Moby Dick and fought him , than to have seen thee , thou white ghost !"
what cannot habit accomplish ?-- Gayer sallies , more merry mirth , better jokes , and brighter repartees , you never heard over your mahogany , than you will hear over the half - inch white cedar of the whale - boat , when thus hung in hangman ' s nooses ; and , like the six burghers of Calais before King Edward , the six men composing the crew pull into the jaws of death , with a halter around every neck , as you may say .
And all the while , jet after jet of white smoke was agonizingly shot from the spiracle of the whale , and vehement puff after puff from the mouth of the excited headsman ; as at every dart , hauling in upon his crooked lance ( by the line attached to it ), Stubb straightened it again and again , by a few rapid blows against the gunwale , then again and again sent it into the whale .
But the spermaceti itself , how bland and creamy that is ; like the transparent , half - jellied , white meat of a cocoanut in the third month of its growth , yet far too rich to supply a substitute for butter .
The peeled white body of the beheaded whale flashes like a marble sepulchre ; though changed in hue , it has not perceptibly lost anything in bulk .
The vast white headless phantom floats further and further from the ship , and every rod that it so floats , what seem square roods of sharks and cubic roods of fowls , augment the murderous din .
Espied by some timid man - of - war or blundering discovery - vessel from afar , when the distance obscuring the swarming fowls , nevertheless still shows the white mass floating in the sun , and the white spray heaving high against it ; straightway the whale ' s unharming corpse , with trembling fingers is set down in the log -- SHOALS , ROCKS , AND BREAKERS HEREABOUTS : BEWARE !
" Hast thou seen the White Whale ?"
Greedily sucking in this intelligence , Gabriel solemnly warned the captain against attacking the White Whale , in case the monster should be seen ; in his gibbering insanity , pronouncing the White Whale to be no less a being than the Shaker God incarnated ; the Shakers receiving the Bible .
a broad white shadow rose from the sea ; by its quick , fanning motion , temporarily taking the breath out of the bodies of the oarsmen .
Mayhew having concluded his narration , Ahab put such questions to him , that the stranger captain could not forbear inquiring whether he intended to hunt the White Whale , if opportunity should offer .
But suddenly in the distance , they saw a great heap of tumultuous white water , and soon after news came from aloft that one or both the boats must be fast .
" Why , do ye see , the old man is hard bent after that White Whale , and the devil there is trying to come round him , and get him to swap away his silver watch , or his soul , or something of that sort , and then he ' ll surrender Moby Dick ."
from floor to ceiling , lined , or rather papered with a glistening white membrane , glossy as bridal satins .
In most cases this lower jaw -- being easily unhinged by a practised artist -- is disengaged and hoisted on deck for the purpose of extracting the ivory teeth , and furnishing a supply of that hard white whalebone with which the fishermen fashion all sorts of curious articles , including canes , umbrella - stocks , and handles to riding - whips .
* This reminds us that the Right Whale really has a sort of whisker , or rather a moustache , consisting of a few scattered white hairs on the upper part of the outer end of the lower jaw .
The lower subdivided part , called the junk , is one immense honeycomb of oil , formed by the crossing and recrossing , into ten thousand infiltrated cells , of tough elastic white fibres throughout its whole extent .
As he mounted the deck , Ahab abruptly accosted him , without at all heeding what he had in his hand ; but in his broken lingo , the German soon evinced his complete ignorance of the White Whale ; immediately turning the conversation to his lamp - feeder and oil can , with some remarks touching his having to turn into his hammock at night in profound darkness -- his last drop of Bremen oil being gone , and not a single flying - fish yet captured to supply the deficiency ; concluding by hinting that his ship was indeed what in the Fishery is technically called a CLEAN one ( that is , an empty one ), well deserving the name of Jungfrau or the Virgin .
Nevertheless , he stuck to their wake , though indeed their back water must have retarded him , because the white - bone or swell at his broad muzzle was a dashed one , like the swell formed when two hostile currents meet .
Hurrah for the white - ash breeze !
While this clumsy lubber was striving to free his white - ash , and while , in consequence , Derick ' s boat was nigh to capsizing , and he thundering away at his men in a mighty rage ;-- that was a good time for Starbuck , Stubb , and Flask .
Blinding vapours of foam and white - fire !
The next moment , relieved in great part from the downward strain at the bows , the boats gave a sudden bounce upwards , as a small icefield will , when a dense herd of white bears are scared from it into the sea .
For , by this time , so spent was he by loss of blood , that he helplessly rolled away from the wreck he had made ; lay panting on his side , impotently flapped with his stumped fin , then over and over slowly revolved like a waning world ; turned up the white secrets of his belly ; lay like a log , and died .
Unlike the straight perpendicular twin - jets of the Right Whale , which , dividing at top , fall over in two branches , like the cleft drooping boughs of a willow , the single forward - slanting spout of the Sperm Whale presents a thick curled bush of white mist , continually rising and falling away to leeward .
And who could tell whether , in that congregated caravan , Moby Dick himself might not temporarily be swimming , like the worshipped white - elephant in the coronation procession of the Siamese !
It seemed formed of detached white vapours , rising and falling something like the spouts of the whales ; only they did not so completely come and go ; for they constantly hovered , without finally disappearing .
Stripped to our shirts and drawers , we sprang to the white - ash , and after several hours ' pulling were almost disposed to renounce the chase , when a general pausing commotion among the whales gave animating token that they were now at last under the influence of that strange perplexity of inert irresolution , which , when the fishermen perceive it in the whale , they say he is gallied .
As , blind and deaf , the whale plunged forward , as if by sheer power of speed to rid himself of the iron leech that had fastened to him ; as we thus tore a white gash in the sea , on all sides menaced as we flew , by the crazed creatures to and fro rushing about us ; our beset boat was like a ship mobbed by ice - isles in a tempest , and striving to steer through their complicated channels and straits , knowing not at what moment it may be locked in and crushed .
" Well , then , my Bouton - de - Rose - bud , have you seen the White Whale ?"
" The WHITE Whale -- a Sperm Whale -- Moby Dick , have ye seen him ?
White Whale -- no ."
In outer aspect , Pip and Dough - Boy made a match , like a black pony and a white one , of equal developments , though of dissimilar colour , driven in one eccentric span .
First comes white - horse , so called , which is obtained from the tapering part of the fish , and also from the thicker portions of his flukes .
After being severed from the whale , the white - horse is first cut into portable oblongs ere going to the mincer .
As they narrated to each other their unholy adventures , their tales of terror told in words of mirth ; as their uncivilized laughter forked upwards out of them , like the flames from the furnace ; as to and fro , in their front , the harpooneers wildly gesticulated with their huge pronged forks and dippers ; as the wind howled on , and the sea leaped , and the ship groaned and dived , and yet steadfastly shot her red hell further and further into the blackness of the sea and the night , and scornfully champed the white bone in her mouth , and viciously spat round her on all sides ; then the rushing Pequod , freighted with savages , and laden with fire , and burning a corpse , and plunging into that blackness of darkness , seemed the material counterpart of her monomaniac commander ' s soul .
This is the reason why the decks never look so white as just after what they call an affair of oil .
For it was set apart and sanctified to one awe - striking end ; and however wanton in their sailor ways , one and all , the mariners revered it as the white whale ' s talisman .
" If the White Whale be raised , it must be in a month and a day , when the sun stands in some one of these signs .
the White Whale ; he ' ll nail ye !
Hast seen the White Whale ?"
" Hast seen the White Whale !"
and withdrawing it from the folds that had hidden it , he held up a white arm of sperm whale bone , terminating in a wooden head like a mallet .
Where did ' st thou see the White Whale ?-- how long ago ?"
" The White Whale ," said the Englishman , pointing his ivory arm towards the East , and taking a rueful sight along it , as if it had been a telescope ; " there I saw him , on the Line , last season ."
" I was ignorant of the White Whale at that time .
Presently up breaches from the bottom of the sea a bouncing great whale , with a milky - white head and hump , all crows ' feet and wrinkles ."
" Well , this old great - grandfather , with the white head and hump , runs all afoam into the pod , and goes to snapping furiously at my fast - line !
No use sterning all , then ; but as I was groping at midday , with a blinding sun , all crown - jewels ; as I was groping , I say , after the second iron , to toss it overboard -- down comes the tail like a Lima tower , cutting my boat in two , leaving each half in splinters ; and , flukes first , the white hump backed through the wreck , as though it was all chips .
" What became of the White Whale ?"
So that what you take for the White Whale ' s malice is only his awkwardness .
No more White Whales for me ; I ' ve lowered for him once , and that has satisfied me .
Now , amid the green , life - restless loom of that Arsacidean wood , the great , white , worshipped skeleton lay lounging -- a gigantic idler !
The smallest , where the spine tapers away into the tail , is only two inches in width , and looks something like a white billiard - ball .
Aye , sir ; he must have the white heat for this kind of fine work .
With his snow - white new ivory leg braced against the screwed leg of his table , and with a long pruning - hook of a jack - knife in his hand , the wondrous old man , with his back to the gangway door , was wrinkling his brow , and tracing his old courses again .
He called one to him in the grey morning watch , when the day was just breaking , and taking his hand , said that while in Nantucket he had chanced to see certain little canoes of dark wood , like the rich war - wood of his native isle ; and upon inquiry , he had learned that all whalemen who died in Nantucket , were laid in those same dark canoes , and that the fancy of being so laid had much pleased him ; for it was not unlike the custom of his own race , who , after embalming a dead warrior , stretched him out in his canoe , and so left him to be floated away to the starry archipelagoes ; for not only do they believe that the stars are isles , but that far beyond all visible horizons , their own mild , uncontinented seas , interflow with the blue heavens ; and so form the white breakers of the milky way .
But few thoughts of Pan stirred Ahab ' s brain , as standing like an iron statue at his accustomed place beside the mizen rigging , with one nostril he unthinkingly snuffed the sugary musk from the Bashee isles ( in whose sweet woods mild lovers must be walking ), and with the other consciously inhaled the salt breath of the new found sea ; that sea in which the hated White Whale must even then be swimming .
the White Whale spouts thick blood !"
Is not this harpoon for the White Whale ?"
" For the white fiend !
Three punctures were made in the heathen flesh , and the White Whale ' s barbs were then tempered .
" Hast seen the White Whale ?"
All the yard - arms were tipped with a pallid fire ; and touched at each tri - pointed lightning - rod - end with three tapering white flames , each of the three tall masts was silently burning in that sulphurous air , like three gigantic wax tapers before an altar .
The parted mouth of Tashtego revealed his shark - white teeth , which strangely gleamed as if they too had been tipped by corpusants ; while lit up by the preternatural light , Queequeg ' s tattooing burned like Satanic blue flames on his body .
" Look up at it ; mark it well ; the white flame but lights the way to the White Whale !
" All your oaths to hunt the White Whale are as binding as mine ; and heart , soul , and body , lungs and life , old Ahab is bound .
Oh , sir , let old Perth now come and rivet these two hands together ; the black one with the white , for I will not let this go ."
At sun - rise this man went from his hammock to his mast - head at the fore ; and whether it was that he was not yet half waked from his sleep ( for sailors sometimes go aloft in a transition state ), whether it was thus with the man , there is now no telling ; but , be that as it may , he had not been long at his perch , when a cry was heard -- a cry and a rushing -- and looking up , they saw a falling phantom in the air ; and looking down , a little tossed heap of white bubbles in the blue of the sea .
And thus the first man of the Pequod that mounted the mast to look out for the White Whale , on the White Whale ' s own peculiar ground ; that man was swallowed up in the deep .
" Hast seen the White Whale ?"
It seemed that somewhat late on the afternoon of the day previous , while three of the stranger ' s boats were engaged with a shoal of whales , which had led them some four or five miles from the ship ; and while they were yet in swift chase to windward , the white hump and head of Moby Dick had suddenly loomed up out of the water , not very far to leeward ; whereupon , the fourth rigged boat -- a reserved one -- had been instantly lowered in chase .
In the distance he saw the diminished dotted boat ; and then a swift gleam of bubbling white water ; and after that nothing more ; whence it was concluded that the stricken whale must have indefinitely run away with his pursuers , as often happens .
" They tell me , sir , that Stubb did once desert poor little Pip , whose drowned bones now show white , for all the blackness of his living skin .
What an odd feeling , now , when a black boy ' s host to white men with gold lace upon their coats !-- Monsieurs , have ye seen one Pip ?-- a little negro lad , five feet high , hang - dog look , and cowardly !
And now that at the proper time and place , after so long and wide a preliminary cruise , Ahab ,-- all other whaling waters swept -- seemed to have chased his foe into an ocean - fold , to slay him the more securely there ; now , that he found himself hard by the very latitude and longitude where his tormenting wound had been inflicted ; now that a vessel had been spoken which on the very day preceding had actually encountered Moby Dick ;-- and now that all his successive meetings with various ships contrastingly concurred to show the demoniac indifference with which the white whale tore his hunters , whether sinning or sinned against ; now it was that there lurked a something in the old man ' s eyes , which it was hardly sufferable for feeble souls to see .
Upon the stranger ' s shears were beheld the shattered , white ribs , and some few splintered planks , of what had once been a whale - boat ; but you now saw through this wreck , as plainly as you see through the peeled , half - unhinged , and bleaching skeleton of a horse .
" Hast seen the White Whale ?"
Tempered in blood , and tempered by lightning are these barbs ; and I swear to temper them triply in that hot place behind the fin , where the White Whale most feels his accursed life !"
Hither , and thither , on high , glided the snow - white wings of small , unspeckled birds ; these were the gentle thoughts of the feminine air ; but to and fro in the deeps , far down in the bottomless blue , rushed mighty leviathans , sword - fish , and sharks ; and these were the strong , troubled , murderous thinkings of the masculine sea .
I only ; none of ye could have raised the White Whale first .
Before it , far out on the soft Turkish - rugged waters , went the glistening white shadow from his broad , milky forehead , a musical rippling playfully accompanying the shade ; and behind , the blue waters interchangeably flowed over into the moving valley of his steady wake ; and on either hand bright bubbles arose and danced by his side .
But these were broken again by the light toes of hundreds of gay fowl softly feathering the sea , alternate with their fitful flight ; and like to some flag - staff rising from the painted hull of an argosy , the tall but shattered pole of a recent lance projected from the white whale ' s back ; and at intervals one of the cloud of soft - toed fowls hovering , and to and fro skimming like a canopy over the fish , silently perched and rocked on this pole , the long tail feathers streaming like pennons .
Not the white bull Jupiter swimming away with ravished Europa clinging to his graceful horns ; his lovely , leering eyes sideways intent upon the maid ; with smooth bewitching fleetness , rippling straight for the nuptial bower in Crete ; not Jove , not that great majesty Supreme !
did surpass the glorified White Whale as he so divinely swam .
Hoveringly halting , and dipping on the wing , the white sea - fowls longingly lingered over the agitated pool that he left .
In long Indian file , as when herons take wing , the white birds were now all flying towards Ahab ' s boat ; and when within a few yards began fluttering over the water there , wheeling round and round , with joyous , expectant cries .
But suddenly as he peered down and down into its depths , he profoundly saw a white living spot no bigger than a white weasel , with wonderful celerity uprising , and magnifying as it rose , till it turned , and then there were plainly revealed two long crooked rows of white , glistening teeth , floating up from the undiscoverable bottom .
The bluish pearl - white of the inside of the jaw was within six inches of Ahab ' s head , and reached higher than that .
In this attitude the White Whale now shook the slight cedar as a mildly cruel cat her mouse .
Ripplingly withdrawing from his prey , Moby Dick now lay at a little distance , vertically thrusting his oblong white head up and down in the billows ; and at the same time slowly revolving his whole spindled body ; so that when his vast wrinkled forehead rose -- some twenty or more feet out of the water -- the now rising swells , with all their confluent waves , dazzlingly broke against it ; vindictively tossing their shivered spray still higher into the air .
For so revolvingly appalling was the White Whale ' s aspect , and so planetarily swift the ever - contracting circles he made , that he seemed horizontally swooping upon them .
The Pequod ' s prows were pointed ; and breaking up the charmed circle , she effectually parted the white whale from his victim .
Dragged into Stubb ' s boat with blood - shot , blinded eyes , the white brine caking in his wrinkles ; the long tension of Ahab ' s bodily strength did crack , and helplessly he yielded to his body ' s doom : for a time , lying all crushed in the bottom of Stubb ' s boat , like one trodden under foot of herds of elephants .
-- Then advancing towards the doubloon in the main - mast --" Men , this gold is mine , for I earned it ; but I shall let it abide here till the White Whale is dead ; and then , whosoever of ye first raises him , upon the day he shall be killed , this gold is that man ' s ; and if on that day I shall again raise him , then , ten times its sum shall be divided among all of ye !
For not by any calm and indolent spoutings ; not by the peaceable gush of that mystic fountain in his head , did the White Whale now reveal his vicinity ; but by the far more wondrous phenomenon of breaching .
was the cry , as in his immeasurable bravadoes the White Whale tossed himself salmon - like to Heaven .
But ere that close limit was gained , and while yet all three boats were plain as the ship ' s three masts to his eye ; the White Whale churning himself into furious speed , almost in an instant as it were , rushing among the boats with open jaws , and a lashing tail , offered appalling battle on every side ; and heedless of the irons darted at him from every boat , seemed only intent on annihilating each separate plank of which those boats were made .
But at last in his untraceable evolutions , the White Whale so crossed and recrossed , and in a thousand ways entangled the slack of the three lines now fast to him , that they foreshortened , and , of themselves , warped the devoted boats towards the planted irons in him ; though now for a moment the whale drew aside a little , as if to rally for a more tremendous charge .
That instant , the White Whale made a sudden rush among the remaining tangles of the other lines ; by so doing , irresistibly dragged the more involved boats of Stubb and Flask towards his flukes ; dashed them together like two rolling husks on a surf - beaten beach , and then , diving down into the sea , disappeared in a boiling maelstrom , in which , for a space , the odorous cedar chips of the wrecks danced round and round , like the grated nutmeg in a swiftly stirred bowl of punch .
While the two crews were yet circling in the waters , reaching out after the revolving line - tubs , oars , and other floating furniture , while aslope little Flask bobbed up and down like an empty vial , twitching his legs upwards to escape the dreaded jaws of sharks ; and Stubb was lustily singing out for some one to ladle him up ; and while the old man ' s line -- now parting -- admitted of his pulling into the creamy pool to rescue whom he could ;-- in that wild simultaneousness of a thousand concreted perils ,-- Ahab ' s yet unstricken boat seemed drawn up towards Heaven by invisible wires ,-- as , arrow - like , shooting perpendicularly from the sea , the White Whale dashed his broad forehead against its bottom , and sent it , turning over and over , into the air ; till it fell again -- gunwale downwards -- and Ahab and his men struggled out from under it , like seals from a sea - side cave .
Nor white whale , nor man , nor fiend , can so much as graze old Ahab in his own proper and inaccessible being .
The harpoon , too !-- toss over the litter there ,-- d ' ye see it ?-- the forged iron , men , the white whale ' s -- no , no , no ,-- blistered fool !
Steering as she had done , the wind had been somewhat on the Pequod ' s quarter , so that now being pointed in the reverse direction , the braced ship sailed hard upon the breeze as she rechurned the cream in her own white wake .
the white whale goes that way ; look to windward , then ; the better if the bitterer quarter .
We ' ll talk to - morrow , nay , to - night , when the white whale lies down there , tied by head and tail ."
But these were the first sharks that had been observed by the Pequod since the White Whale had been first descried ; and whether it was that Ahab ' s crew were all such tiger - yellow barbarians , and therefore their flesh more musky to the senses of the sharks -- a matter sometimes well known to affect them ,-- however it was , they seemed to follow that one boat without molesting the others .
The wide tiers of welded tendons overspreading his broad white forehead , beneath the transparent skin , looked knitted together ; as head on , he came churning his tail among the boats ; and once more flailed them apart ; spilling out the irons and lances from the two mates ' boats , and dashing in one side of the upper part of their bows , but leaving Ahab ' s almost without a scar .
Whether fagged by the three days ' running chase , and the resistance to his swimming in the knotted hamper he bore ; or whether it was some latent deceitfulness and malice in him : whichever was true , the White Whale ' s way now began to abate , as it seemed , from the boat so rapidly nearing him once more ; though indeed the whale ' s last start had not been so long a one as before .
At length as the craft was cast to one side , and ran ranging along with the White Whale ' s flank , he seemed strangely oblivious of its advance -- as the whale sometimes will -- and Ahab was fairly within the smoky mountain mist , which , thrown off from the whale ' s spout , curled round his great , Monadnock hump ; he was even thus close to him ; when , with body arched back , and both arms lengthwise high - lifted to the poise , he darted his fierce iron , and his far fiercer curse into the hated whale .
Almost simultaneously , with a mighty volition of ungraduated , instantaneous swiftness , the White Whale darted through the weltering sea .
Retribution , swift vengeance , eternal malice were in his whole aspect , and spite of all that mortal man could do , the solid white buttress of his forehead smote the ship ' s starboard bow , till men and timbers reeled .
Now small fowls flew screaming over the yet yawning gulf ; a sullen white surf beat against its steep sides ; then all collapsed , and the great shroud of the sea rolled on as it rolled five thousand years ago .
Hither of ill - joined sons and daughters born First from the ancient world those giants came With many a vain exploit , though then renowned : The builders next of Babel on the plain Of Sennaar , and still with vain design , New Babels , had they wherewithal , would build : Others came single ; he , who , to be deemed A God , leaped fondly into Aetna flames , Empedocles ; and he , who , to enjoy Plato ' s Elysium , leaped into the sea , Cleombrotus ; and many more too long , Embryos , and idiots , eremites , and friars White , black , and gray , with all their trumpery .
Mean while the tepid caves , and fens , and shores , Their brood as numerous hatch , from the egg that soon Bursting with kindly rupture forth disclosed Their callow young ; but feathered soon and fledge They summed their pens ; and , soaring the air sublime , With clang despised the ground , under a cloud In prospect ; there the eagle and the stork On cliffs and cedar tops their eyries build : Part loosely wing the region , part more wise In common , ranged in figure , wedge their way , Intelligent of seasons , and set forth Their aery caravan , high over seas Flying , and over lands , with mutual wing Easing their flight ; so steers the prudent crane Her annual voyage , borne on winds ; the air Floats as they pass , fanned with unnumbered plumes : From branch to branch the smaller birds with song Solaced the woods , and spread their painted wings Till even ; nor then the solemn nightingale Ceased warbling , but all night tun ' d her soft lays : Others , on silver lakes and rivers , bathed Their downy breast ; the swan with arched neck , Between her white wings mantling proudly , rows Her state with oary feet ; yet oft they quit The dank , and , rising on stiff pennons , tower The mid aereal sky : Others on ground Walked firm ; the crested cock whose clarion sounds The silent hours , and the other whose gay train Adorns him , coloured with the florid hue Of rainbows and starry eyes .
why in the east Darkness ere day ' s mid - course , and morning - light More orient in yon western cloud , that draws O ' er the blue firmament a radiant white , And slow descends with something heavenly fraught ?
That ' s an ill Phrase , a vilde Phrase , beautified is a vilde Phrase : but you shall heare these in her excellent white bosome , these
Pray can I not , Though inclination be as sharpe as will : My stronger guilt , defeats my strong intent , And like a man to double businesse bound , I stand in pause where I shall first begin , And both neglect ; what if this cursed hand Were thicker then it selfe with Brothers blood , Is there not Raine enough in the sweet Heauens To wash it white as Snow ?
White his Shrow ' d as the Mountaine Snow
His Beard as white as Snow , All Flaxen was his Pole : He is gone , he is gone , and we cast away mone , Gramercy on his Soule .
My Hands are of your colour : but I shame To weare a Heart so white .
In cabin ' d ships at sea , The boundless blue on every side expanding , With whistling winds and music of the waves , the large imperious waves , Or some lone bark buoy ' d on the dense marine , Where joyous full of faith , spreading white sails , She cleaves the ether mid the sparkle and the foam of day , or under many a star at night , By sailors young and old haply will I , a reminiscence of the land , be read , In full rapport at last .
spread your white sails my little bark athwart the imperious waves , Chant on , sail on , bear o ' er the boundless blue from me to every sea , This song for mariners and all their ships .
I am satisfied -- I see , dance , laugh , sing ; As the hugging and loving bed - fellow sleeps at my side through the night , and withdraws at the peep of the day with stealthy tread , Leaving me baskets cover ' d with white towels swelling the house with their plenty , Shall I postpone my acceptation and realization and scream at my eyes , That they turn from gazing after and down the road , And forthwith cipher and show me to a cent , Exactly the value of one and exactly the value of two , and which is ahead ?
Or I guess it is a uniform hieroglyphic , And it means , Sprouting alike in broad zones and narrow zones , Growing among black folks as among white , Kanuck , Tuckahoe , Congressman , Cuff , I give them the same , I receive them the same .
This grass is very dark to be from the white heads of old mothers , Darker than the colorless beards of old men , Dark to come from under the faint red roofs of mouths .
The young men float on their backs , their white bellies bulge to the sun , they do not ask who seizes fast to them , They do not know who puffs and declines with pendant and bending arch , They do not think whom they souse with spray .
I believe in those wing ' d purposes , And acknowledge red , yellow , white , playing within me , And consider green and violet and the tufted crown intentional , And do not call the tortoise unworthy because she is not something else , And the in the woods never studied the gamut , yet trills pretty well to me , And the look of the bay mare shames silliness out of me .
15 The pure contralto sings in the organ loft , The carpenter dresses his plank , the tongue of his foreplane whistles its wild ascending lisp , The married and unmarried children ride home to their Thanksgiving dinner , The pilot seizes the king - pin , he heaves down with a strong arm , The mate stands braced in the whale - boat , lance and harpoon are ready , The duck - shooter walks by silent and cautious stretches , The deacons are ordain ' d with cross ' d hands at the altar , The spinning - girl retreats and advances to the hum of the big wheel , The farmer stops by the bars as he walks on a First - day loafe and looks at the oats and rye , The lunatic is carried at last to the asylum a confirm ' d case , ( He will never sleep any more as he did in the cot in his mother ' s bed - room ;) The jour printer with gray head and gaunt jaws works at his case , He turns his quid of tobacco while his eyes blurr with the manuscript ; The malform ' d limbs are tied to the surgeon ' s table , What is removed drops horribly in a pail ; The quadroon girl is sold at the auction - stand , the drunkard nods by the bar - room stove , The machinist rolls up his sleeves , the policeman travels his beat , the gate - keeper marks who pass , The young fellow drives the express - wagon , ( I love him , though I do not know him ;) The half - breed straps on his light boots to compete in the race , The western turkey - shooting draws old and young , some lean on their rifles , some sit on logs , Out from the crowd steps the marksman , takes his position , levels his piece ; The groups of newly - come immigrants cover the wharf or levee , As the woolly - pates hoe in the sugar - field , the overseer views them from his saddle , The bugle calls in the ball - room , the gentlemen run for their partners , the dancers bow to each other , The youth lies awake in the cedar - roof ' d garret and harks to the musical rain , The Wolverine sets traps on the creek that helps fill the Huron , The squaw wrapt in her yellow - hemm ' d cloth is offering moccasins and bead - bags for sale , The connoisseur peers along the exhibition - gallery with half - shut eyes bent sideways , As the deck - hands make fast the steamboat the plank is thrown for the shore - going passengers , The young sister holds out the skein while the elder sister winds it off in a ball , and stops now and then for the knots , The one - year wife is recovering and happy having a week ago borne her first child , The clean - hair ' d Yankee girl works with her sewing - machine or in the factory or mill , The paving - man leans on his two - handed rammer , the reporter ' s lead flies swiftly over the note - book , the sign - painter is lettering with blue and gold , The canal boy trots on the tow - path , the book - keeper counts at his desk , the shoemaker waxes his thread , The conductor beats time for the band and all the performers follow him , The child is baptized , the convert is making his first professions , The regatta is spread on the bay , the race is begun , ( how the white sails sparkle !)
The drover watching his drove sings out to them that would stray , The pedler sweats with his pack on his back , ( the purchaser higgling about the odd cent ;) The bride unrumples her white dress , the minute - hand of the clock moves slowly , The opium - eater reclines with rigid head and just - open ' d lips , The prostitute draggles her shawl , her bonnet bobs on her tipsy and pimpled neck , The crowd laugh at her blackguard oaths , the men jeer and wink to each other , ( Miserable !
By the city ' s quadrangular houses -- in log huts , camping with lumber - men , Along the ruts of the turnpike , along the dry gulch and rivulet bed , Weeding my onion - patch or hosing rows of carrots and parsnips , crossing savannas , trailing in forests , Prospecting , gold - digging , girdling the trees of a new purchase , Scorch ' d ankle - deep by the hot sand , hauling my boat down the shallow river , Where the panther walks to and fro on a limb overhead , where the buck turns furiously at the hunter , Where the rattlesnake suns his flabby length on a rock , where the otter is feeding on fish , Where the alligator in his tough pimples sleeps by the bayou , Where the black bear is searching for roots or honey , where the beaver pats the mud with his paddle - shaped tall ; Over the growing sugar , over the yellow - flower ' d cotton plant , over the rice in its low moist field , Over the sharp - peak ' d farm house , with its scallop ' d scum and slender shoots from the gutters , Over the western persimmon , over the long - leav ' d corn , over the delicate blue - flower flax , Over the white and brown buckwheat , a hummer and buzzer there with the rest , Over the dusky green of the rye as it ripples and shades in the breeze ; Scaling mountains , pulling myself cautiously up , holding on by low scragged limbs , Walking the path worn in the grass and beat through the leaves of the brush , Where the quail is whistling betwixt the woods and the wheat - lot , Where the bat flies in the Seventh - month eve , where the great goldbug drops through the dark , Where the brook puts out of the roots of the old tree and flows to the meadow , Where cattle stand and shake away flies with the tremulous shuddering of their hides , Where the cheese - cloth hangs in the kitchen , where andirons straddle the hearth - slab , where cobwebs fall in festoons from the rafters ; Where trip - hammers crash , where the press is whirling its cylinders , Wherever the human heart beats with terrible throes under its ribs , Where the pear - shaped balloon is floating aloft , ( floating in it myself and looking composedly down ,) Where the life - car is drawn on the slip - noose , where the heat hatches pale - green eggs in the dented sand , Where the she - whale swims with her calf and never forsakes it , Where the steam - ship trails hind - ways its long pennant of smoke , Where the fin of the shark cuts like a black chip out of the water , Where the half - burn ' d brig is riding on unknown currents , Where shells grow to her slimy deck , where the dead are corrupting below ; Where the dense - starr ' d flag is borne at the head of the regiments , Approaching Manhattan up by the long - stretching island , Under Niagara , the cataract falling like a veil over my countenance , Upon a door - step , upon the horse - block of hard wood outside , Upon the race - course , or enjoying picnics or jigs or a good game of base - ball , At he - festivals , with blackguard gibes , ironical license , bull - dances , drinking , laughter , At the cider - mill tasting the sweets of the brown mash , sucking the juice through a straw , At apple - peelings wanting kisses for all the red fruit I find , At musters , beach - parties , friendly bees , huskings , house - raisings ; Where the mocking - bird sounds his delicious gurgles , cackles , screams , weeps , Where the hay - rick stands in the barn - yard , where the dry - stalks are scatter ' d , where the brood - cow waits in the hovel , Where the bull advances to do his masculine work , where the stud to the mare , where the cock is treading the hen , Where the heifers browse , where geese nip their food with short jerks , Where sun - down shadows lengthen over the limitless and lonesome prairie , Where herds of buffalo make a crawling spread of the square miles far and near , Where the humming - bird shimmers , where the neck of the long - lived swan is curving and winding , Where the laughing - gull scoots by the shore , where she laughs her near - human laugh , Where bee - hives range on a gray bench in the garden half hid by the high weeds , Where band - neck ' d partridges roost in a ring on the ground with their heads out , Where burial coaches enter the arch ' d gates of a cemetery , Where winter wolves bark amid wastes of snow and icicled trees , Where the yellow - crown ' d heron comes to the edge of the marsh at night and feeds upon small crabs , Where the splash of swimmers and divers cools the warm noon , Where the katy - did works her chromatic reed on the walnut - tree over the well , Through patches of citrons and cucumbers with silver - wired leaves , Through the salt - lick or orange glade , or under conical firs , Through the gymnasium , through the curtain ' d saloon , through the office or public hall ; Pleas ' d with the native and pleas ' d with the foreign , pleas ' d with the new and old , Pleas ' d with the homely woman as well as the handsome , Pleas ' d with the quakeress as she puts off her bonnet and talks melodiously , Pleas ' d with the tune of the choir of the whitewash ' d church , Pleas ' d with the earnest words of the sweating Methodist preacher , impress ' d seriously at the camp - meeting ; Looking in at the shop - windows of Broadway the whole forenoon , flatting the flesh of my nose on the thick plate glass , Wandering the same afternoon with my face turn ' d up to the clouds , or down a lane or along the beach , My right and left arms round the sides of two friends , and I in the middle ; Coming home with the silent and dark - cheek ' d bush - boy , ( behind me he rides at the drape of the day ,) Far from the settlements studying the print of animals ' feet , or the moccasin print , By the cot in the hospital reaching lemonade to a feverish patient , Nigh the coffin ' d corpse when all is still , examining with a candle ; Voyaging to every port to dicker and adventure , Hurrying with the modern crowd as eager and fickle as any , Hot toward one I hate , ready in my madness to knife him , Solitary at midnight in my back yard , my thoughts gone from me a long while , Walking the old hills of Judaea with the beautiful gentle God by my side , Speeding through space , speeding through heaven and the stars , Speeding amid the seven satellites and the broad ring , and the diameter of eighty thousand miles , Speeding with tail ' d meteors , throwing fire - balls like the rest , Carrying the crescent child that carries its own full mother in its belly , Storming , enjoying , planning , loving , cautioning , Backing and filling , appearing and disappearing , I tread day and night such roads .
I ascend to the foretruck , I take my place late at night in the crow ' s - nest , We sail the arctic sea , it is plenty light enough , Through the clear atmosphere I stretch around on the wonderful beauty , The enormous masses of ice pass me and I pass them , the scenery is plain in all directions , The white - topt mountains show in the distance , I fling out my fancies toward them , We are approaching some great battle - field in which we are soon to be engaged , We pass the colossal outposts of the encampment , we pass with still feet and caution , Or we are entering by the suburbs some vast and ruin ' d city , The blocks and fallen architecture more than all the living cities of the globe .
I lie in the night air in my red shirt , the pervading hush is for my sake , Painless after all I lie exhausted but not so unhappy , White and beautiful are the faces around me , the heads are bared of their fire - caps , The kneeling crowd fades with the light of the torches .
36 Stretch ' d and still lies the midnight , Two great hulls motionless on the breast of the darkness , Our vessel riddled and slowly sinking , preparations to pass to the one we have conquer ' d , The captain on the quarter - deck coldly giving his orders through a countenance white as a sheet , Near by the corpse of the child that serv ' d in the cabin , The dead face of an old salt with long white hair and carefully curl ' d whiskers , The flames spite of all that can be done flickering aloft and below , The husky voices of the two or three officers yet fit for duty , Formless stacks of bodies and bodies by themselves , dabs of flesh upon the masts and spars , Cut of cordage , dangle of rigging , slight shock of the soothe of waves , Black and impassive guns , litter of powder - parcels , strong scent , A few large stars overhead , silent and mournful shining , Delicate sniffs of sea - breeze , smells of sedgy grass and fields by the shore , death - messages given in charge to survivors , The hiss of the surgeon ' s knife , the gnawing teeth of his saw , Wheeze , cluck , swash of falling blood , short wild scream , and long , dull , tapering groan , These so , these irretrievable .
Magnifying and applying come I , Outbidding at the start the old cautious hucksters , Taking myself the exact dimensions of Jehovah , Lithographing Kronos , Zeus his son , and Hercules his grandson , Buying drafts of Osiris , Isis , Belus , Brahma , Buddha , In my portfolio placing Manito loose , Allah on a leaf , the crucifix engraved , With Odin and the hideous - faced Mexitli and every idol and image , Taking them all for what they are worth and not a cent more , Admitting they were alive and did the work of their days , ( They bore mites as for unfledg ' d birds who have now to rise and fly and sing for themselves ,) Accepting the rough deific sketches to fill out better in myself , bestowing them freely on each man and woman I see , Discovering as much or more in a framer framing a house , Putting higher claims for him there with his roll ' d - up sleeves driving the mallet and chisel , Not objecting to special revelations , considering a curl of smoke or a hair on the back of my hand just as curious as any revelation , Lads ahold of fire - engines and hook - and - ladder ropes no less to me than the gods of the antique wars , Minding their voices peal through the crash of destruction , Their brawny limbs passing safe over charr ' d laths , their white foreheads whole and unhurt out of the flames ; By the mechanic ' s wife with her babe at her nipple interceding for every person born , Three scythes at harvest whizzing in a row from three lusty angels with shirts bagg ' d out at their waists , The snag - tooth ' d hostler with red hair redeeming sins past and to come , Selling all he possesses , traveling on foot to fee lawyers for his brother and sit by him while he is tried for forgery ; What was strewn in the amplest strewing the square rod about me , and not filling the square rod then , The bull and the bug never worshipp ' d half enough , Dung and dirt more admirable than was dream ' d , The supernatural of no account , myself waiting my time to be one of the supremes , The day getting ready for me when I shall do as much good as the best , and be as prodigious ; By my life - lumps !
And as to you Corpse I think you are good manure , but that does not offend me , I smell the white roses sweet - scented and growing , I reach to the leafy lips , I reach to the polish ' d breasts of melons .
I depart as air , I shake my white locks at the runaway sun , I effuse my flesh in eddies , and drift it in lacy jags .
This man was a wonderful vigor , calmness , beauty of person , The shape of his head , the pale yellow and white of his hair and beard , the immeasurable meaning of his black eyes , the richness and breadth of his manners , These I used to go and visit him to see , he was wise also , He was six feet tall , he was over eighty years old , his sons were massive , clean , bearded , tan - faced , handsome , They and his daughters loved him , all who saw him loved him , They did not love him by allowance , they loved him with personal love , He drank water only , the blood show ' d like scarlet through the clear - brown skin of his face , He was a frequent gunner and fisher , he sail ' d his boat himself , he had a fine one presented to him by a ship - joiner , he had fowling - pieces presented to him by men that loved him , When he went with his five sons and many grand - sons to hunt or fish , you would pick him out as the most beautiful and vigorous of the gang , You would wish long and long to be with him , you would wish to sit by him in the boat that you and he might touch each other .
5 This is the female form , A divine nimbus exhales from it from head to foot , It attracts with fierce undeniable attraction , I am drawn by its breath as if I were no more than a helpless vapor , all falls aside but myself and it , Books , art , religion , time , the visible and solid earth , and what was expected of heaven or fear ' d of hell , are now consumed , Mad filaments , ungovernable shoots play out of it , the response likewise ungovernable , Hair , bosom , hips , bend of legs , negligent falling hands all diffused , mine too diffused , Ebb stung by the flow and flow stung by the ebb , love - flesh swelling and deliciously aching , Limitless limpid jets of love hot and enormous , quivering jelly of love , white - blow and delirious nice , Bridegroom night of love working surely and softly into the prostrate dawn , Undulating into the willing and yielding day , Lost in the cleave of the clasping and sweet - flesh ' d day .
Examine these limbs , red , black , or white , they are cunning in tendon and nerve , They shall be stript that you may see them .
Not heat flames up and consumes , Not sea - waves hurry in and out , Not the air delicious and dry , the air of ripe summer , bears lightly along white down - balls of myriads of seeds , Waited , sailing gracefully , to drop where they may ; Not these , O none of these more than the flames of me , consuming , burning for his love whom I love , O none more than I hurrying in and out ; Does the tide hurry , seeking something , and never give up ?
Behold this swarthy face , these gray eyes , This beard , the white wool unclipt upon my neck , My brown hands and the silent manner of me without charm ; Yet comes one a Manhattanese and ever at parting kisses me lightly on the lips with robust love , And I on the crossing of the street or on the ship ' s deck give a kiss in return , We observe that salute of American comrades land and sea , We are those two natural and nonchalant persons .
I see plenteous waters , I see mountain peaks , I see the sierras of Andes where they range , I see plainly the Himalayas , Chian Shahs , Altays , Ghauts , I see the giant pinnacles of Elbruz , Kazbek , Bazardjusi , I see the Styrian Alps , and the Karnac Alps , I see the Pyrenees , Balks , Carpathians , and to the north the Dofrafields , and off at sea mount Hecla , I see Vesuvius and Etna , the mountains of the Moon , and the Red mountains of Madagascar , I see the Lybian , Arabian , and Asiatic deserts , I see huge dreadful Arctic and Antarctic icebergs , I see the superior oceans and the inferior ones , the Atlantic and Pacific , the sea of Mexico , the Brazilian sea , and the sea of Peru , The waters of Hindustan , the China sea , and the gulf of Guinea , The Japan waters , the beautiful bay of Nagasaki land - lock ' d in its mountains , The spread of the Baltic , Caspian , Bothnia , the British shores , and the bay of Biscay , The clear - sunn ' d Mediterranean , and from one to another of its islands , The White sea , and the sea around Greenland .
I too many and many a time cross ' d the river of old , Watched the Twelfth - month sea - gulls , saw them high in the air floating with motionless wings , oscillating their bodies , Saw how the glistening yellow lit up parts of their bodies and left the rest in strong shadow , Saw the slow - wheeling circles and the gradual edging toward the south , Saw the reflection of the summer sky in the water , Had my eyes dazzled by the shimmering track of beams , Look ' d at the fine centrifugal spokes of light round the shape of my head in the sunlit water , Look ' d on the haze on the hills southward and south - westward , Look ' d on the vapor as it flew in fleeces tinged with violet , Look ' d toward the lower bay to notice the vessels arriving , Saw their approach , saw aboard those that were near me , Saw the white sails of schooners and sloops , saw the ships at anchor , The sailors at work in the rigging or out astride the spars , The round masts , the swinging motion of the hulls , the slender serpentine pennants , The large and small steamers in motion , the pilots in their pilothouses , The white wake left by the passage , the quick tremulous whirl of the wheels , The flags of all nations , the falling of them at sunset , The scallop - edged waves in the twilight , the ladled cups , the frolic - some crests and glistening , The stretch afar growing dimmer and dimmer , the gray walls of the granite storehouses by the docks , On the river the shadowy group , the big steam - tug closely flank ' d on each side by the barges , the hay - boat , the belated lighter , On the neighboring shore the fires from the foundry chimneys burning high and glaringly into the night , Casting their flicker of black contrasted with wild red and yellow light over the tops of houses , and down into the clefts of streets .
pass up or down , white - sail ' d schooners , sloops , lighters !
Always Florida ' s green peninsula -- always the priceless delta of Louisiana -- always the cotton - fields of Alabama and Texas , Always California ' s golden hills and hollows , and the silver mountains of New Mexico -- always soft - breath ' d Cuba , Always the vast slope drain ' d by the Southern sea , inseparable with the slopes drain ' d by the Eastern and Western seas , The area the eighty - third year of these States , the three and a half millions of square miles , The eighteen thousand miles of sea - coast and bay - coast on the main , the thirty thousand miles of river navigation , The seven millions of distinct families and the same number of dwellings -- always these , and more , branching forth into numberless branches , Always the free range and diversity -- always the continent of Democracy ; Always the prairies , pastures , forests , vast cities , travelers , Kanada , the snows ; Always these compact lands tied at the hips with the belt stringing the huge oval lakes ; Always the West with strong native persons , the increasing density there , the habitans , friendly , threatening , ironical , scorning invaders ; All sights , South , North , East -- all deeds , promiscuously done at all times , All characters , movements , growths , a few noticed , myriads unnoticed , Through Mannahatta ' s streets I walking , these things gathering , On interior rivers by night in the glare of pine knots , steamboats wooding up , Sunlight by day on the valley of the Susquehanna , and on the valleys of the Potomac and Rappahannock , and the valleys of the Roanoke and Delaware , In their northerly wilds beasts of prey haunting the Adirondacks the hills , or lapping the Saginaw waters to drink , In a lonesome inlet a sheldrake lost from the flock , sitting on the water rocking silently , In farmers ' barns oxen in the stable , their harvest labor done , they rest standing , they are too tired , Afar on arctic ice the she - walrus lying drowsily while her cubs play around , The hawk sailing where men have not yet sail ' d , the farthest polar sea , ripply , crystalline , open , beyond the floes , White drift spooning ahead where the ship in the tempest dashes , On solid land what is done in cities as the bells strike midnight together , In primitive woods the sounds there also sounding , the howl of the wolf , the scream of the panther , and the hoarse bellow of the elk , In winter beneath the hard blue ice of Moosehead lake , in summer visible through the clear waters , the great trout swimming , In lower latitudes in warmer air in the Carolinas the large black buzzard floating slowly high beyond the tree tops , Below , the red cedar festoon ' d with tylandria , the pines and cypresses growing out of the white sand that spreads far and flat , Rude boats descending the big Pedee , climbing plants , parasites with color ' d flowers and berries enveloping huge trees , The waving drapery on the live - oak trailing long and low , noiselessly waved by the wind , The camp of Georgia wagoners just after dark , the supper - fires and the cooking and eating by whites and negroes , Thirty or forty great wagons , the mules , cattle , horses , feeding from troughs , The shadows , gleams , up under the leaves of the old sycamore - trees , the flames with the black smoke from the pitch - pine curling and rising ; Southern fishermen fishing , the sounds and inlets of North Carolina ' s coast , the shad - fishery and the herring - fishery , the large sweep - seines , the windlasses on shore work ' d by horses , the clearing , curing , and packing - houses ; Deep in the forest in piney woods turpentine dropping from the incisions in the trees , there are the turpentine works , There are the negroes at work in good health , the ground in all directions is cover ' d with pine straw ; In Tennessee and Kentucky slaves busy in the coalings , at the forge , by the furnace - blaze , or at the corn - shucking , In Virginia , the planter ' s son returning after a long absence , joyfully welcom ' d and kiss ' d by the aged mulatto nurse , On rivers boatmen safely moor ' d at nightfall in their boats under shelter of high banks , Some of the younger men dance to the sound of the banjo or fiddle , others sit on the gunwale smoking and talking ; Late in the afternoon the mocking - bird , the American mimic , singing in the Great Dismal Swamp , There are the greenish waters , the resinous odor , the plenteous moss , the cypress - tree , and the juniper - tree ; Northward , young men of Mannahatta , the target company from an excursion returning home at evening , the musket - muzzles all bear bunches of flowers presented by women ; Children at play , or on his father ' s lap a young boy fallen asleep , ( how his lips move !
My children and grand - children , my white hair and beard , My largeness , calmness , majesty , out of the long stretch of my life .
2 Welcome are all earth ' s lands , each for its kind , Welcome are lands of pine and oak , Welcome are lands of the lemon and fig , Welcome are lands of gold , Welcome are lands of wheat and maize , welcome those of the grape , Welcome are lands of sugar and rice , Welcome the cotton - lands , welcome those of the white potato and sweet potato , Welcome are mountains , flats , sands , forests , prairies , Welcome the rich borders of rivers , table - lands , openings , Welcome the measureless grazing - lands , welcome the teeming soil of orchards , flax , honey , hemp ; Welcome just as much the other more hard - faced lands , Lands rich as lands of gold or wheat and fruit lands , Lands of mines , lands of the manly and rugged ores , Lands of coal , copper , lead , tin , zinc , Lands of iron -- lands of the make of the axe .
3 The log at the wood - pile , the axe supported by it , The sylvan hut , the vine over the doorway , the space clear ' d for garden , The irregular tapping of rain down on the leaves after the storm is lull ' d , The walling and moaning at intervals , the thought of the sea , The thought of ships struck in the storm and put on their beam ends , and the cutting away of masts , The sentiment of the huge timbers of old - fashion ' d houses and barns , The remember ' d print or narrative , the voyage at a venture of men , families , goods , The disembarkation , the founding of a new city , The voyage of those who sought a New England and found it , the outset anywhere , The settlements of the Arkansas , Colorado , Ottawa , Willamette , The slow progress , the scant fare , the axe , rifle , saddle - bags ; The beauty of all adventurous and daring persons , The beauty of wood - boys and wood - men with their clear untrimm ' d faces , The beauty of independence , departure , actions that rely on themselves , The American contempt for statutes and ceremonies , the boundless impatience of restraint , The loose drift of character , the inkling through random types , the solidification ; The butcher in the slaughter - house , the hands aboard schooners and sloops , the raftsman , the pioneer , Lumbermen in their winter camp , daybreak in the woods , stripes of snow on the limbs of trees , the occasional snapping , The glad clear sound of one ' s own voice , the merry song , the natural life of the woods , the strong day ' s work , The blazing fire at night , the sweet taste of supper , the talk , the bed of hemlock - boughs and the bear - skin ; The house - builder at work in cities or anywhere , The preparatory jointing , squaring , sawing , mortising , The hoist - up of beams , the push of them in their places , laying them regular , Setting the studs by their tenons in the mortises according as they were prepared , The blows of mallets and hammers , the attitudes of the men , their curv ' d limbs , Bending , standing , astride the beams , driving in pins , holding on by posts and braces , The hook ' d arm over the plate , the other arm wielding the axe , The floor - men forcing the planks close to be nail ' d , Their postures bringing their weapons downward on the bearers , The echoes resounding through the vacant building : The huge storehouse carried up in the city well under way , The six framing - men , two in the middle and two at each end , carefully bearing on their shoulders a heavy stick for a cross - beam , The crowded line of masons with trowels in their right hands rapidly laying the long side - wall , two hundred feet from front to rear , The flexible rise and fall of backs , the continual click of the trowels striking the bricks , The bricks one after another each laid so workmanlike in its place , and set with a knock of the trowel - handle , The piles of materials , the mortar on the mortar - boards , and the steady replenishing by the hod - men ; Spar - makers in the spar - yard , the swarming row of well - grown apprentices , The swing of their axes on the square - hew ' d log shaping it toward the shape of a mast , The brisk short crackle of the steel driven slantingly into the pine , The butter - color ' d chips flying off in great flakes and slivers , The limber motion of brawny young arms and hips in easy costumes , The constructor of wharves , bridges , piers , bulk - heads , floats , stays against the sea ; The city fireman , the fire that suddenly bursts forth in the close - pack ' d square , The arriving engines , the hoarse shouts , the nimble stepping and daring , The strong command through the fire - trumpets , the falling in line , the rise and fall of the arms forcing the water , The slender , spasmic , blue - white jets , the bringing to bear of the hooks and ladders and their execution , The crash and cut away of connecting wood - work , or through floors if the fire smoulders under them , The crowd with their lit faces watching , the glare and dense shadows ; The forger at his forge - furnace and the user of iron after him , The maker of the axe large and small , and the welder and temperer , The chooser breathing his breath on the cold steel and trying the edge with his thumb , The one who clean - shapes the handle and sets it firmly in the socket ; The shadowy processions of the portraits of the past users also , The primal patient mechanics , the architects and engineers , The far - off Assyrian edifice and Mizra edifice , The Roman lictors preceding the consuls , The antique European warrior with his axe in combat , The uplifted arm , the clatter of blows on the helmeted head , The death - howl , the limpsy tumbling body , the rush of friend and foe thither , The siege of revolted lieges determin ' d for liberty , The summons to surrender , the battering at castle gates , the truce and parley , The sack of an old city in its time , The bursting in of mercenaries and bigots tumultuously and disorderly , Roar , flames , blood , drunkenness , madness , Goods freely rifled from houses and temples , screams of women in the gripe of brigands , Craft and thievery of camp - followers , men running , old persons despairing , The hell of war , the cruelties of creeds , The list of all executive deeds and words just or unjust , The power of personality just or unjust .
The shape of the prisoner ' s place in the court - room , and of him or her seated in the place , The shape of the liquor - bar lean ' d against by the young rum - drinker and the old rum - drinker , The shape of the shamed and angry stairs trod by sneaking foot - steps , The shape of the sly settee , and the adulterous unwholesome couple , The shape of the gambling - board with its devilish winnings and losings , The shape of the step - ladder for the convicted and sentenced murderer , the murderer with haggard face and pinion ' d arms , The sheriff at hand with his deputies , the silent and white - lipp ' d crowd , the dangling of the rope .
Behold , the sea itself , And on its limitless , heaving breast , the ships ; See , where their white sails , bellying in the wind , speckle the green and blue , See , the steamers coming and going , steaming in or out of port , See , dusky and undulating , the long pennants of smoke .
You untold life of me , And all you venerable and innocent joys , Perennial hardy life of me with joys ' mid rain and many a summer sun , And the white snows and night and the wild winds ; O the great patient rugged joys , my soul ' s strong joys unreck ' d by man , ( For know I bear the soul befitting me , I too have consciousness , identity , And all the rocks and mountains have , and all the earth ,) Joys of the life befitting me and brothers mine , Our time , our term has come .
4 The sum of all known reverence I add up in you whoever you are , The President is there in the White House for you , it is not you who are here for him , The Secretaries act in their bureaus for you , not you here for them , The Congress convenes every Twelfth - month for you , Laws , courts , the forming of States , the charters of cities , the going and coming of commerce and malls , are all for you .
All architecture is what you do to it when you look upon it , ( Did you think it was in the white or gray stone ?
House - building , measuring , sawing the boards , Blacksmithing , glass - blowing , nail - making , coopering , tin - roofing , shingle - dressing , Ship - joining , dock - building , fish - curing , flagging of sidewalks by flaggers , The pump , the pile - driver , the great derrick , the coal - kiln and brickkiln , Coal - mines and all that is down there , the lamps in the darkness , echoes , songs , what meditations , what vast native thoughts looking through smutch ' d faces , Iron - works , forge - fires in the mountains or by river - banks , men around feeling the melt with huge crowbars , lumps of ore , the due combining of ore , limestone , coal , The blast - furnace and the puddling - furnace , the loup - lump at the bottom of the melt at last , the rolling - mill , the stumpy bars of pig - iron , the strong clean - shaped Trail for railroads , Oil - works , silk - works , white - lead - works , the sugar - house , steam - saws , the great mills and factories , Stone - cutting , shapely trimmings for facades or window or door - lintels , the mallet , the tooth - chisel , the jib to protect the thumb , The calking - iron , the kettle of boiling vault - cement , and the fire under the kettle , The cotton - bale , the stevedore ' s hook , the saw and buck of the sawyer , the mould of the moulder , the working - knife of the butcher , the ice - saw , and all the work with ice , The work and tools of the rigger , grappler , sail - maker , block - maker , Goods of gutta - percha , papier - mache , colors , brushes , brush - making , glazier ' s implements , The veneer and glue - pot , the confectioner ' s ornaments , the decanter and glasses , the shears and flat - iron , The awl and knee - strap , the pint measure and quart measure , the counter and stool , the writing - pen of quill or metal , the making of all sorts of edged tools , The brewery , brewing , the malt , the vats , every thing that is done by brewers , wine - makers , vinegar - makers , Leather - dressing , coach - making , boiler - making , rope - twisting , distilling , sign - painting , lime - burning , cotton - picking , electroplating , electrotyping , stereotyping , Stave - machines , planing - machines , reaping - machines , ploughing - machines , thrashing - machines , steam wagons , The cart of the carman , the omnibus , the ponderous dray , Pyrotechny , letting off color ' d fireworks at night , fancy figures and jets ; Beef on the butcher ' s stall , the slaughter - house of the butcher , the butcher in his killing - clothes , The pens of live pork , the killing - hammer , the hog - hook , the scalder ' s tub , gutting , the cutter ' s cleaver , the packer ' s maul , and the plenteous winterwork of pork - packing , Flour - works , grinding of wheat , rye , maize , rice , the barrels and the half and quarter barrels , the loaded barges , the high piles on wharves and levees , The men and the work of the men on ferries , railroads , coasters , fish - boats , canals ; The hourly routine of your own or any man ' s life , the shop , yard , store , or factory , These shows all near you by day and night -- workman !
I would bind in words retrospective some of your deeds and signs , I would sing your contest for the 19th Presidentiad , I would sing how an old man , tall , with white hair , mounted the scaffold in Virginia , ( I was at hand , silent I stood with teeth shut close , I watch ' d , I stood very near you old man when cool and indifferent , but trembling with age and your unheal ' d wounds you mounted the scaffold ;) I would sing in my copious song your census returns of the States , The tables of population and products , I would sing of your ships and their cargoes , The proud black ships of Manhattan arriving , some fill ' d with immigrants , some from the isthmus with cargoes of gold , Songs thereof would I sing , to all that hitherward comes would welcome give , And you would I sing , fair stripling !
Winds blow south , or winds blow north , Day come white , or night come black , Home , or rivers and mountains from home , Singing all time , minding no time , While we two keep together .
Yes my brother I know , The rest might not , but I have treasur ' d every note , For more than once dimly down to the beach gliding , Silent , avoiding the moonbeams , blending myself with the shadows , Recalling now the obscure shapes , the echoes , the sounds and sights after their sorts , The white arms out in the breakers tirelessly tossing , I , with bare feet , a child , the wind wafting my hair , Listen ' d long and long .
What is that little black thing I see there in the white ?
Me and mine , loose windrows , little corpses , Froth , snowy white , and bubbles , ( See , from my dead lips the ooze exuding at last , See , the prismatic colors glistening and rolling ,) Tufts of straw , sands , fragments , Buoy ' d hither from many moods , one contradicting another , From the storm , the long calm , the darkness , the swell , Musing , pondering , a breath , a briny tear , a dab of liquid or soil , Up just as much out of fathomless workings fermented and thrown , A limp blossom or two , torn , just as much over waves floating , drifted at random , Just as much for us that sobbing dirge of Nature , Just as much whence we come that blare of the cloud - trumpets , We , capricious , brought hither we know not whence , spread out before you , You up there walking or sitting , Whoever you are , we too lie in drifts at your feet .
In the night , in solitude , tears , On the white shore dripping , dripping , suck ' d in by the sand , Tears , not a star shining , all dark and desolate , Moist tears from the eyes of a muffled head ; O who is that ghost ?
The world below the brine , Forests at the bottom of the sea , the branches and leaves , Sea - lettuce , vast lichens , strange flowers and seeds , the thick tangle openings , and pink turf , Different colors , pale gray and green , purple , white , and gold , the play of light through the water , Dumb swimmers there among the rocks , coral , gluten , grass , rushes , and the aliment of the swimmers , Sluggish existences grazing there suspended , or slowly crawling close to the bottom , The sperm - whale at the surface blowing air and spray , or disporting with his flukes , The leaden - eyed shark , the walrus , the turtle , the hairy sea - leopard , and the sting - ray , Passions there , wars , pursuits , tribes , sight in those ocean - depths , breathing that thick - breathing air , as so many do , The change thence to the sight here , and to the subtle air breathed by beings like us who walk this sphere , The change onward from ours to that of beings who walk other spheres .
Wild , wild the storm , and the sea high running , Steady the roar of the gale , with incessant undertone muttering , Shouts of demoniac laughter fitfully piercing and pealing , Waves , air , midnight , their savagest trinity lashing , Out in the shadows there milk - white combs careering , On beachy slush and sand spirts of snow fierce slanting , Where through the murk the easterly death - wind breasting , Through cutting swirl and spray watchful and firm advancing , ( That in the distance !
Slush and sand of the beach tireless till daylight wending , Steadily , slowly , through hoarse roar never remitting , Along the midnight edge by those milk - white combs careering , A group of dim , weird forms , struggling , the night confronting , That savage trinity warily watching .
After the sea - ship , after the whistling winds , After the white - gray sails taut to their spars and ropes , Below , a myriad myriad waves hastening , lifting up their necks , Tending in ceaseless flow toward the track of the ship , Waves of the ocean bubbling and gurgling , blithely prying , Waves , undulating waves , liquid , uneven , emulous waves , Toward that whirling current , laughing and buoyant , with curves , Where the great vessel sailing and tacking displaced the surface , Larger and smaller waves in the spread of the ocean yearnfully flowing , The wake of the sea - ship after she passes , flashing and frolicsome under the sun , A motley procession with many a fleck of foam and many fragments , Following the stately and rapid ship , in the wake following .
For shame old maniacs -- bring down those toss ' d arms , and let your white hair be , Here gape your great grandsons , their wives gaze at them from the windows , See how well dress ' d , see how orderly they conduct themselves .
To the drum - taps prompt , The young men falling in and arming , The mechanics arming , ( the trowel , the jack - plane , the blacksmith ' s hammer , tost aside with precipitation ,) The lawyer leaving his office and arming , the judge leaving the court , The driver deserting his wagon in the street , jumping down , throwing the reins abruptly down on the horses ' backs , The salesman leaving the store , the boss , book - keeper , porter , all leaving ; Squads gather everywhere by common consent and arm , The new recruits , even boys , the old men show them how to wear their accoutrements , they buckle the straps carefully , Outdoors arming , indoors arming , the flash of the musket - barrels , The white tents cluster in camps , the arm ' d sentries around , the sunrise cannon and again at sunset , Arm ' d regiments arrive every day , pass through the city , and embark from the wharves , ( How good they look as they tramp down to the river , sweaty , with their guns on their shoulders !
Poet : Fresh and rosy red the sun is mounting high , On floats the sea in distant blue careering through its channels , On floats the wind over the breast of the sea setting in toward land , The great steady wind from west or west - by - south , Floating so buoyant with milk - white foam on the waters .
I mark ' d the white combs where they career ' d so high , curling over , I heard the wind piping , I saw the black clouds , Saw from below what arose and mounted , ( O superb !
A line in long array where they wind betwixt green islands , They take a serpentine course , their arms flash in the sun -- hark to the musical clank , Behold the silvery river , in it the splashing horses loitering stop to drink , Behold the brown - faced men , each group , each person a picture , the negligent rest on the saddles , Some emerge on the opposite bank , others are just entering the ford -- while , Scarlet and blue and snowy white , The guidon flags flutter gayly in the wind .
Ah now the single figure to me , Amid all teeming and wealthy Ohio with all its cities and farms , Sickly white in the face and dull in the head , very faint , By the jamb of a door leans .
A march in the ranks hard - prest , and the road unknown , A route through a heavy wood with muffled steps in the darkness , Our army foil ' d with loss severe , and the sullen remnant retreating , Till after midnight glimmer upon us the lights of a dim - lighted building , We come to an open space in the woods , and halt by the dim - lighted building , ' Tis a large old church at the crossing roads , now an impromptu hospital , Entering but for a minute I see a sight beyond all the pictures and poems ever made , Shadows of deepest , deepest black , just lit by moving candles and lamps , And by one great pitchy torch stationary with wild red flame and clouds of smoke , By these , crowds , groups of forms vaguely I see on the floor , some in the pews laid down , At my feet more distinctly a soldier , a mere lad , in danger of bleeding to death , ( he is shot in the abdomen ,) I stanch the blood temporarily , ( the youngster ' s face is white as a lily ,) Then before I depart I sweep my eyes o ' er the scene fain to absorb it all , Faces , varieties , postures beyond description , most in obscurity , some of them dead , Surgeons operating , attendants holding lights , the smell of ether , odor of blood , The crowd , O the crowd of the bloody forms , the yard outside also fill ' d , Some on the bare ground , some on planks or stretchers , some in the death - spasm sweating , An occasional scream or cry , the doctor ' s shouted orders or calls , The glisten of the little steel instruments catching the glint of the torches , These I resume as I chant , I see again the forms , I smell the odor , Then hear outside the orders given , Fall in , my men , fall in ; But first I bend to the dying lad , his eyes open , a half - smile gives he me , Then the eyes close , calmly close , and I speed forth to the darkness , Resuming , marching , ever in darkness marching , on in the ranks , The unknown road still marching .
Then to the third -- a face nor child nor old , very calm , as of beautiful yellow - white ivory ; Young man I think I know you -- I think this face is the face of the Christ himself , Dead and divine and brother of all , and here again he lies .
of the rifle - balls , I see the shells exploding leaving small white clouds , I hear the great shells shrieking as they pass , The grape like the hum and whirr of wind through the trees , ( tumultuous now the contest rages ,) All the scenes at the batteries rise in detail before me again , The crashing and smoking , the pride of the men in their pieces , The chief - gunner ranges and sights his piece and selects a fuse of the right time , After firing I see him lean aside and look eagerly off to note the effect ; Elsewhere I hear the cry of a regiment charging , ( the young colonel leads himself this time with brandish ' d sword ,) I see the gaps cut by the enemy ' s volleys , ( quickly fill ' d up , no delay ,) I breathe the suffocating smoke , then the flat clouds hover low concealing all ; Now a strange lull for a few seconds , not a shot fired on either side , Then resumed the chaos louder than ever , with eager calls and orders of officers , While from some distant part of the field the wind wafts to my ears a shout of applause , ( some special success ,) And ever the sound of the cannon far or near , ( rousing even in dreams a devilish exultation and all the old mad joy in the depths of my soul ,) And ever the hastening of infantry shifting positions , batteries , cavalry , moving hither and thither , ( The falling , dying , I heed not , the wounded dripping and red heed not , some to the rear are hobbling ,) Grime , heat , rush , aide - de - camps galloping by or on a full run , With the patter of small arms , the warning s - s - t of the rifles , ( these in my vision I hear or see ,) And bombs bursting in air , and at night the vari - color ' d rockets .
Who are you dusky woman , so ancient hardly human , With your woolly - white and turban ' d head , and bare bony feet ?
World take good notice , silver stars fading , Milky hue ript , wet of white detaching , Coals thirty - eight , baleful and burning , Scarlet , significant , hands off warning , Now and henceforth flaunt from these shores .
Word over all , beautiful as the sky , Beautiful that war and all its deeds of carnage must in time be utterly lost , That the hands of the sisters Death and Night incessantly softly wash again , and ever again , this solid world ; For my enemy is dead , a man divine as myself is dead , I look where he lies white - faced and still in the coffin -- I draw near , Bend down and touch lightly with my lips the white face in the coffin .
Ah my silvery beauty -- ah my woolly white and crimson !
3 In the dooryard fronting an old farm - house near the white - wash ' d palings , Stands the lilac - bush tall - growing with heart - shaped leaves of rich green , With many a pointed blossom rising delicate , with the perfume strong I love , With every leaf a miracle -- and from this bush in the dooryard , With delicate - color ' d blossoms and heart - shaped leaves of rich green , A sprig with its flower I break .
5 Over the breast of the spring , the land , amid cities , Amid lanes and through old woods , where lately the violets peep ' d from the ground , spotting the gray debris , Amid the grass in the fields each side of the lanes , passing the endless grass , Passing the yellow - spear ' d wheat , every grain from its shroud in the dark - brown fields uprisen , Passing the apple - tree blows of white and pink in the orchards , Carrying a corpse to where it shall rest in the grave , Night and day journeys a coffin .
I saw battle - corpses , myriads of them , And the white skeletons of young men , I saw them , I saw the debris and debris of all the slain soldiers of the war , But I saw they were not as was thought , They themselves were fully at rest , they suffer ' d not , The living remain ' d and suffer ' d , the mother suffer ' d , And the wife and the child and the musing comrade suffer ' d , And the armies that remain ' d suffer ' d .
Under thee only they harvest , even but a wisp of hay under thy great face only , Harvest the wheat of Ohio , Illinois , Wisconsin , every barbed spear under thee , Harvest the maize of Missouri , Kentucky , Tennessee , each ear in its light - green sheath , Gather the hay to its myriad mows in the odorous tranquil barns , Oats to their bins , the white potato , the buckwheat of Michigan , to theirs ; Gather the cotton in Mississippi or Alabama , dig and hoard the golden the sweet potato of Georgia and the Carolinas , Clip the wool of California or Pennsylvania , Cut the flax in the Middle States , or hemp or tobacco in the Borders , Pick the pea and the bean , or pull apples from the trees or bunches of grapes from the vines , Or aught that ripens in all these States or North or South , Under the beaming sun and under thee .
The early lilacs became part of this child , And grass and white and red morning - glories , and white and red clover , and the song of the phoebe - bird , And the Third - month lambs and the sow ' s pink - faint litter , and the mare ' s foal and the cow ' s calf , And the noisy brood of the barnyard or by the mire of the pond - side , And the fish suspending themselves so curiously below there , and the beautiful curious liquid , And the water - plants with their graceful flat heads , all became part of him .
The streets themselves and the facades of houses , and goods in the windows , Vehicles , teams , the heavy - plank ' d wharves , the huge crossing at the ferries , The village on the highland seen from afar at sunset , the river between , Shadows , aureola and mist , the light falling on roofs and gables of white or brown two miles off , The schooner near by sleepily dropping down the tide , the little boat slack - tow ' d astern , The hurrying tumbling waves , quick - broken crests , slapping , The strata of color ' d clouds , the long bar of maroon - tint away solitary by itself , the spread of purity it lies motionless in , The horizon ' s edge , the flying sea - crow , the fragrance of salt marsh and shore mud , These became part of that child who went forth every day , and who now goes , and will always go forth every day .
Far hence amid an isle of wondrous beauty , Crouching over a grave an ancient sorrowful mother , Once a queen , now lean and tatter ' d seated on the ground , Her old white hair drooping dishevel ' d round her shoulders , At her feet fallen an unused royal harp , Long silent , she too long silent , mourning her shrouded hope and heir , Of all the earth her heart most full of sorrow because most full of love .
Yet a word ancient mother , You need crouch there no longer on the cold ground with forehead between your knees , O you need not sit there veil ' d in your old white hair so dishevel ' d , For know you the one you mourn is not in that grave , It was an illusion , the son you love was not really dead , The Lord is not dead , he is risen again young and strong in another country , Even while you wept there by your fallen harp by the grave , What you wept for was translated , pass ' d from the grave , The winds favor ' d and the sea sail ' d it , And now with rosy and new blood , Moves to - day in a new country .
Or white - domed capitol with majestic figure surmounted , or all the old high - spired cathedrals , That little house alone more than them all -- poor , desperate house !
some are such beautiful animals , so lofty looking ; Some are buff - color ' d , some mottled , one has a white line running along his back , some are brindled , Some have wide flaring horns ( a good sign )-- see you !
The wretched features of ennuyes , the white features of corpses , the livid faces of drunkards , the sick - gray faces of onanists , The gash ' d bodies on battle - fields , the insane in their strong - door ' d rooms , the sacred idiots , the new - born emerging from gates , and the dying emerging from gates , The night pervades them and infolds them .
3 I see a beautiful gigantic swimmer swimming naked through the eddies of the sea , His brown hair lies close and even to his head , he strikes out with courageous arms , he urges himself with his legs , I see his white body , I see his undaunted eyes , I hate the swift - running eddies that would dash him head - foremost on the rocks .
8 The sleepers are very beautiful as they lie unclothed , They flow hand in hand over the whole earth from east to west as they lie unclothed , The Asiatic and African are hand in hand , the European and American are hand in hand , Learn ' d and unlearn ' d are hand in hand , and male and female are hand in hand , The bare arm of the girl crosses the bare breast of her lover , they press close without lust , his lips press her neck , The father holds his grown or ungrown son in his arms with measureless love , and the son holds the father in his arms with measureless love , The white hair of the mother shines on the white wrist of the daughter , The breath of the boy goes with the breath of the man , friend is inarm ' d by friend , The scholar kisses the teacher and the teacher kisses the scholar , the wrong ' d made right , The call of the slave is one with the master ' s call , and the master salutes the slave , The felon steps forth from the prison , the insane becomes sane , the suffering of sick persons is reliev ' d , The sweatings and fevers stop , the throat that was unsound is sound , the lungs of the consumptive are resumed , the poor distress ' d head is free , The joints of the rheumatic move as smoothly as ever , and smoother than ever , Stiflings and passages open , the paralyzed become supple , The swell ' d and convuls ' d and congested awake to themselves in condition , They pass the invigoration of the night and the chemistry of the night , and awake .
A huge sob -- a few bubbles -- the white foam spirting up -- and then the women gone , Sinking there while the passionless wet flows on -- and I now pondering , Are those women indeed gone ?
Off the word I have spoken I except not one -- red , white , black , are all deific , In each house is the ovum , it comes forth after a thousand years .
I saw the rich ladies in full dress at the soiree , I heard what the singers were singing so long , Heard who sprang in crimson youth from the white froth and the water - blue .
She sits in an armchair under the shaded porch of the farmhouse , The sun just shines on her old white head .
The cactus guarded with thorns , the laurel - tree with large white flowers , The range afar , the richness and barrenness , the old woods charged with mistletoe and trailing moss , The piney odor and the gloom , the awful natural stillness , ( here in these dense swamps the freebooter carries his gun , and the fugitive has his conceal ' d hut ;) O the strange fascination of these half - known half - impassable swamps , infested by reptiles , resounding with the bellow of the alligator , the sad noises of the night - owl and the wild - cat , and the whirr of the rattlesnake , The mocking - bird , the American mimic , singing all the forenoon , singing through the moon - lit night , The humming - bird , the wild turkey , the raccoon , the opossum ; A Kentucky corn - field , the tall , graceful , long - leav ' d corn , slender , flapping , bright green , with tassels , with beautiful ears each well - sheath ' d in its husk ; O my heart !
Now I see what there is in a name , a word , liquid , sane , unruly , musical , self - sufficient , I see that the word of my city is that word from of old , Because I see that word nested in nests of water - bays , superb , Rich , hemm ' d thick all around with sailships and steamships , an island sixteen miles long , solid - founded , Numberless crowded streets , high growths of iron , slender , strong , light , splendidly uprising toward clear skies , Tides swift and ample , well - loved by me , toward sundown , The flowing sea - currents , the little islands , larger adjoining islands , the heights , the villas , The countless masts , the white shore - steamers , the lighters , the ferry - boats , the black sea - steamers well - model ' d , The down - town streets , the jobbers ' houses of business , the houses of business of the ship - merchants and money - brokers , the river - streets , Immigrants arriving , fifteen or twenty thousand in a week , The carts hauling goods , the manly race of drivers of horses , the brown - faced sailors , The summer air , the bright sun shining , and the sailing clouds aloft , The winter snows , the sleigh - bells , the broken ice in the river , passing along up or down with the flood - tide or ebb - tide , The mechanics of the city , the masters , well - form ' d , beautiful - faced , looking you straight in the eyes , Trottoirs throng ' d , vehicles , Broadway , the women , the shops and shows , A million people -- manners free and superb -- open voices -- hospitality -- the most courageous and friendly young men , City of hurried and sparkling waters !
Nor alone those camps of white , old comrades of the wars , When as order ' d forward , after a long march , Footsore and weary , soon as the light lessens we halt for the night , Some of us so fatigued carrying the gun and knapsack , dropping asleep in our tracks , Others pitching the little tents , and the fires lit up begin to sparkle , Outposts of pickets posted surrounding alert through the dark , And a word provided for countersign , careful for safety , Till to the call of the drummers at daybreak loudly beating the drums , We rise up refresh ' d , the night and sleep pass ' d over , and resume our journey , Or proceed to battle .
Apple orchards , the trees all cover ' d with blossoms ; Wheat fields carpeted far and near in vital emerald green ; The eternal , exhaustless freshness of each early morning ; The yellow , golden , transparent haze of the warm afternoon sun ; The aspiring lilac bushes with profuse purple or white flowers .
If I should need to name , O Western World , your powerfulest scene and show , ' Twould not be you , Niagara -- nor you , ye limitless prairies -- nor your huge rifts of canyons , Colorado , Nor you , Yosemite -- nor Yellowstone , with all its spasmic geyser - loops ascending to the skies , appearing and disappearing , Nor Oregon ' s white cones -- nor Huron ' s belt of mighty lakes -- nor Mississippi ' s stream : -- This seething hemisphere ' s humanity , as now , I ' d name -- the still small voice vibrating -- America ' s choosing day , ( The heart of it not in the chosen -- the act itself the main , the quadriennial choosing ,) The stretch of North and South arous ' d -- sea - board and inland -- Texas to Maine -- the Prairie States -- Vermont , Virginia , California , The final ballot - shower from East to West -- the paradox and conflict , The countless snow - flakes falling --( a swordless conflict , Yet more than all Rome ' s wars of old , or modern Napoleon ' s :) the peaceful choice of all , Or good or ill humanity -- welcoming the darker odds , the dross : -- Foams and ferments the wine ?
Where day and night I wend thy surf - beat shore , Imaging to my sense thy varied strange suggestions , ( I see and plainly list thy talk and conference here ,) Thy troops of white - maned racers racing to the goal , Thy ample , smiling face , dash ' d with the sparkling dimples of the sun , Thy brooding scowl and murk -- thy unloos ' d hurricanes , Thy unsubduedness , caprices , wilfulness ; Great as thou art above the rest , thy many tears -- a lack from all eternity in thy content , ( Naught but the greatest struggles , wrongs , defeats , could make thee greatest -- no less could make thee ,) Thy lonely state -- something thou ever seek ' st and seek ' st , yet never gain ' st , Surely some right withheld -- some voice , in huge monotonous rage , of freedom - lover pent , Some vast heart , like a planet ' s , chain ' d and chafing in those breakers , By lengthen ' d swell , and spasm , and panting breath , And rhythmic rasping of thy sands and waves , And serpent hiss , and savage peals of laughter , And undertones of distant lion roar , ( Sounding , appealing to the sky ' s deaf ear -- but now , rapport for once , A phantom in the night thy confidant for once ,) The first and last confession of the globe , Outsurging , muttering from thy soul ' s abysms , The tale of cosmic elemental passion , Thou tellest to a kindred soul .
Raise main - sail and jib -- steer forth , O little white - hull ' d sloop , now speed on really deep waters , ( I will not call it our concluding voyage , But outset and sure entrance to the truest , best , maturest ;) Depart , depart from solid earth -- no more returning to these shores , Now on for aye our infinite free venture wending , Spurning all yet tried ports , seas , hawsers , densities , gravitation , Sail out for good , eidolon yacht of me !
My life and recitative , containing birth , youth , mid - age years , Fitful as motley - tongues of flame , inseparably twined and merged in one -- combining all , My single soul -- aims , confirmations , failures , joys -- Nor single soul alone , I chant my nation ' s crucial stage , ( America ' s , haply humanity ' s )-- the trial great , the victory great , A strange eclaircissement of all the masses past , the eastern world , the ancient , medieval , Here , here from wanderings , strayings , lessons , wars , defeats -- here at the west a voice triumphant -- justifying all , A gladsome pealing cry -- a song for once of utmost pride and satisfaction ; I chant from it the common bulk , the general average horde , ( the best sooner than the worst )-- And now I chant old age , ( My verses , written first for forenoon life , and for the summer ' s , autumn ' s spread , I pass to snow - white hairs the same , and give to pulses winter - cool ' d the same ;) As here in careless trill , I and my recitatives , with faith and love , wafting to other work , to unknown songs , conditions , On , on ye jocund twain !
Somehow I cannot let it go yet , funeral though it is , Let it remain back there on its nail suspended , With pink , blue , yellow , all blanch ' d , and the white now gray and ashy , One wither ' d rose put years ago for thee , dear friend ; But I do not forget thee .
